ASE-09 Environmental Quality Coordinating Committee   
Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to the exchange of technology for environmental quality and promotes effective use of engineering talent to improve environmental quality.
 
ASE-12 Forest Engineering   
Forested landscapes are essential for clean water, carbon capture from the atmosphere, recreation, and the source of important building materials, fiber, and biochemical/bioenergy feedstocks. Forest Engineering research, professional practice, and expertise contributes to every forest activity for sustainability, safety, quality, and cost-effectiveness. The forest engineering community at ASABE is an eclectic group of students and professionals who share a passion for sustainable forestry practices at all scales from urban street-trees and parklands to private woodlots, industrial forests, and wilderness areas. Silvicultural engineering supports forest regeneration from seed farms, nurseries, greenhouses, land preparation, planting and managing forests through their growth cycle. Soil and water engineers address the unique issues and context of forests on steep slopes, preventing erosion after wildfires, designing trail and road crossings to protect water quality, and to sequester carbon in forest soils while improving water holding capacity. Forest operations engineers design road systems, harvesting layouts, and all kinds of machines to safely and cost-effectively gather logs, biomass, and other forest products for use in industry.
If you are an engineer who wonders why trees get so big, enjoy a walk in the woods, believes we can do better at forest management, wants to help draw down CO2, or sees forested landscapes as a sustainable source of biomaterials in perpetuity, we invite you to participate in our committee meetings and activities. The Forest Engineering committee provides a forum for interchange of ideas and exchange of information, and provides a mechanism for the establishment of standards, for forest engineering. The committee meets annually at the AIM. Membership is open to all who have an interest in forests, forested environments, and forest products. Voting members are approved at the annual meeting. Observing members can join anytime.
 
ASE-134 Fertilizers, Soil Conditioners & US TAG ISO/TC 134   
US Technical Advisory Group for ISO TC 134. Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to fertilizers, soil conditioners and beneficial substances and developed the position of the United States for ISO- related international standardization activities.

ASE-16 Engineering for Sustainability   
ASE-16 leads and coordinates ASABE activities related to sustainability issues in agriculture. The committee typically meets at AIM. Membership is open to all ASABE members. Members are nominated and elected by the existing committee members.

ASE-347 and US TAG TC 347 Data-driven agrifood systems   
Standardization in the field of big-picture, data-driven, principled-decision-making, multi-objective optimization of agricultural and food systems. This includes interoperability challenges such as: Agrisemantics; Sustainability models, metrics and data in agrifoodsystems; Livestock activities data management; Greenhouse, controlled environment, and urban farming.

CBSI - Circular Bioeconomy Systems Institute   
The scope of our work is on the bioeconomy, which is the economic sector that produces and supplies food, feed and fiber and bio-manufactures other products from agriculture, forestry, and aquaculture. The goal of the Circular Bioeconomy Systems Institute (CBSI) is to create a more sustainable, resilient, and environmentally friendly bioeconomy sector that not only produces and supplies food and other bioproducts but also regenerates natural resources, minimizes losses and wastes, and mitigates the environmental impacts of bioproduct supply chains. It represents a shift away from the linear "take-make-dispose" model to a more circular and restorative approach. CBSI embraces collaboration and participation across expertise and disciplines and invites ASABE members and members of other professional societies and stakeholders to join in its effort to develop innovative solutions that lead to a more circular bioeconomy. MISSION: Advance education, professional development, and innovations for developing sustainable circular bioeconomy system VISION: A healthy planet driven by vibrant, sustainable circular bioeconomy systems producing plentiful food, feed, forest products, and renewable resource.

EOPD-203 Undergraduate & Graduate Instruction   
EOPD-203 promotes excellence in teaching, learning, and programming in undergraduate and graduate education in agricultural and biological engineering, technology and management. This committee typically meets once per year at the ASABE annual meeting. Membership is restricted to members of ASABE, but any Society member is welcome to join.

EOPD-204 Engineering & Technology Accreditation   
The purpose of EOPD-204 is to improve professional educational programs accredited under the various commissions of ABET, Inc. The full committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting to propose, discuss, and vote. The committee consists of at least 20 elected members in addition to ASABE representatives to the relevant ABET commissions and other leadership positions. Committee membership comprises ASABE members in good standing, and an effort made to ensure that no less than one-third of the membership represent viewpoints and interests of industries and organizations employing engineers.

EOPD-205 Engineering Technology & Management Education   
EOPD-205 coordinates, develops, and promotes programs related to engineering technology and management education in agriculture and related fields. It coordinates and implements efforts to improve instruction in agricultural, biological, and related engineering technology and management subject matter in course work and curricula in: elementary and secondary classrooms, high schools, vocational programs, associate degree programs, graduate programs, teacher education programs, and baccalaureate programs. This committee meets annually and sponsors one or more sessions at the annual international meeting. Membership is open to all ASABE members, including students whose professional interests are directly related to agricultural, biological, and related engineering technology and management education. Members are nominated and elected by the existing committee members each year at the annual international meeting.

EOPD-206 Ag Technology & Mgmt Curriculum Review & Pgm Recog   
Improves educational programs in Agricultural Mechanization and other related areas through program review and recognition.

EOPD-208 Extension   
The flagship committee for extension in ASABE, EOPD-208 assesses current publications and trends among extension and outreach divisions in agricultural and biological engineering. The primary role of this committee is to review assigned extension ASABE blue ribbon awards and to organize extension-based programs as determined by ASABE membership and the committee. The committee meets annually during the ASABE annual meeting and as needed throughout the year. This committee is open to any ASABE member working in or interested in extension and outreach. Committee membership typically consists of a variety of extension specialists and agents.

EOPD-210 Department Heads   
EOPD-210 provides a forum for exchange and development of ideas and procedures relating to the operation and advancement of agricultural engineering, biological engineering, and similarly named programs and departments. The committee typically convenes at the annual meeting and during the winter (January or February). Membership is by virtue of a person’s role as a department (or program, as appropriate) head or chair.

EOPD-412 Professional Ethics   
EOPD-412 facilitate activities that raise consciousness of and promote adherence to professional ethics and accepted standards of engineering practice as outlined in ASABE Bylaws and Rules, Article B15, Professional Practice. The committee sponsors and conducts ethics training session at the annual meeting. It also reviews and develops the ASABE code of ethics, acts as the Link (chapter) for Order of the Engineer, and conducts the Order of Engineer induction ceremonies. The committee typically meets at the annual meeting or virtually, as required. Membership is open to all ASABE members, and an effort is made to seat approximately 50% licensed engineers, 25% non-licensed engineers and 25% non-engineers. Members are nominated and elected at the annual meeting and serve for three years.

EOPD-414 Engineering Licensure   
EOPD-414 promotes engineering licensure among members by preparing the PE exam and providing preparation materials for exam takers, and it protects the licensure process for future PEs. The committee meets at the annual meeting, usually for an optional 8-hour exam-item-writing session and in a 1-hour business meeting. The exam-writing subcommittee meets in the spring and fall in Greenville, South Carolina, (usually 2 days each) for committee work related to the building the exam and item bank. Travel expenses for 12 to 15 members are covered by NCEES for these meetings. Committee members are approved by a committee vote at business meetings. Members must be PEs to participate in exam preparation work.

EOPD-416 Continuing Professional Development   
Establishes policy and procedures for continuing education activities to be provided and/or endorsed by the Society.

ES-210 Renewable Power Generation   
ES-210 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in current renewable energy resources and technologies, which include solar, biomass, wind, and hydro for agricultural sustainability and rural economy improvement. The ES-210 committee meets annually at the annual international meeting. In addition, there may be one or two teleconferences throughout the year as required. Membership is open to all ASABE members.

ES-220 Bio-based Energy, Fuels and Products   
ES-220 leads the activities of ASABE in matters related to development, analysis, implementation, and dissemination of bio-based energy, fuels, and products. This committee interfaces with other communities on common topics. ES-220 meets annually at the annual meeting, and via teleconference once or twice throughout the year as required. Membership is open to all ASABE members and non-members.

ES-238 Solid Biofuels and Pyrogenic Biocarbons and US TAG To ISO/TC 238   
ES-238 serves as the US Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for ISO TC 238 (standards for solid biofuels). It assures that the standards developed under ISO TC 238 facilitate the trade of solid biofuels. ES-238 meets annually via conference call. Frequent online collaboration takes place to work on current projects. Membership is open to all ASABE members and non-members.

ES-255 Biogas and US TAG ISO TC 255   
US Technical Advisory Group for ISO TC 255. Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to biogas and develops the position of the United States for ISO-related international standardization activities.

ES-300 Energy Utilization & Application   
The role of ES-300 is to lead and coordinate the activities of ASABE in matters relating to energy utilization and application. The committee’s scope encompasses energy systems, electrical technology, and the use of energy as it relates to agriculture applications. This will include energy efficiency, electrical wiring systems, stray voltage mitigation, and energy auditing. Excluded from the scope are field-cropping energy activities. The committee generally convenes only at the annual meeting. Members of the committee are generally limited to ASABE members unless specific expertise is needed that does not exist within the membership.

ES-310 Ag Lighting Group   
ES-310 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to all agricultural lighting systems, with a recent emphasis on LEDs and other electromagnetic radiation source applications for plant growth and development. The ES-310 committee meets annually at the annual international meeting. Membership is open to all ASABE members and non-members.

ES-330 Fan Testing   
Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to agricultural fans.

ES-340 Standby Electric Power   
Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to the development of practical electrical codes and standards for safety in electrical wiring systems used in agricultural production and processing.

ES-400 Electrical Code for Agriculture   
ES-400 provides technical expertise and guidance for development of practical electrical codes and standards for safety in electrical wiring systems used in agricultural production and processing. The primary task of this committee is to develop input into the National Electric Code, in particular Article 547—Agricultural Buildings. The committee meets in a three-year cycle to first develop proposals for changes to the NEC and then to review and make comment on proposals submitted. Meetings are usually held electronically and are based on meeting deadlines for submission to the NEC. Interested ASABE members and non-members are encouraged to participate.

ESH-01 Ergonomics, Safety, and Health Executive / Oversight   
The ESH-01 Executive Oversight committee provides leadership and coordination in defining, developing, and advising the activities and educational materials to improve agricultural and biological ergonomics, safety, and health. The major areas of responsibility of this committee are to coordinate and support the ESH subcommittees. The committee meets annually during the ASABE annual meeting or as needed. This committee is open to any ASABE member interested in promoting and supporting ergonomics, safety, and health through membership in an ESH subcommittee.

ESH-03 Ergonomics, Safety, and Health Standards Oversight   
The ESH-03 committee coordinates the development of safety related standards from both the Ergonomics, Safety and Health community as well as other ASABE technical communities. ESH-03 serves as the parent committee for ESH-03/1 and ESH-03/2. The ESH-03 committee meets annually at the international meeting in conjunction with the subcommittees ESH-03/1 and ESH-03/2. Membership is open to all ASABE members.

ESH-03/2 Internal Standard Development   
ESH-03/2 reviews safety-related standards being developed side the Ergonomics, Safety and Health (ESH) community. The committee meets annually at the international meeting in conjunction with the oversight committee, ESH-03, ESH-03/1. Membership is open to all ASABE members.

ESH-04 Technology Exchange   
The Technology Exchange committee develops technical sessions, plans separate conferences, develops continuing education events, and assists divisions with ergonomics, safety, and health–related programming. The committee meets annually at the international meeting or as needed. This committee has a minimum of five members, and has no maximum number of members.

ESH-04/2 Farmers With Disabilities Technology Exchange   
Addresses new technology as it evolves for farmers and ranchers with disabilities and is associated with AgrAbility.

ITSC-217 Computational Methods, Simulations & Applications   
ITSC-217 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to the development and application of computational methods and simulations for addressing current issues in agricultural and biological engineering. The committee meets each year at the annual meeting. Online meetings may occur throughout the year to attend to committee needs. Membership is open to all ASABE members.

ITSC-230 Biosensors   
ITSC-230 fosters international collaboration to support biosensors development and applications in bioprocessing, food processing, food safety and quality, and bioenvironmental and agricultural systems. The committee convenes at the annual meeting; officers and some members meet as needed throughout the year to organize technical sessions, evaluate abstracts, etc. Membership is open to all students and professionals with an interest in biosensors.

ITSC-254 Emerging Information Systems   
ITSC-254 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in emerging information technology systems, which enables users to monitor processes, complete tasks, and make decisions more effectively and efficiently. The committee meets at the annual international meeting. Membership is open to all ASABE members, including students.

ITSC-312 Machine Vision   
ITSC-312 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to the development and application of vision-based technology in agriculturally and biologically related areas across the scope of Society interests. The ITSC-312 committee meets at the annual international meeting. In addition, there may be one or two teleconferences throughout the year as required. Membership is open to all ASABE members, including students.

ITSC-318 Mechatronics & Robotics   
ITSC-318 leads and coordinates ASABE activities involving the development and application of mechatronics, automation, and robotics with respect to agriculture, food, and biological systems. The committee meets at the ASABE annual meeting. Membership is open to all ASABE members.

ITSC-348 Electromagnetics & Spectroscopy   
ITSC-348 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE for scientific developments in sonic, ultrasonic, electromagnetic, spectroscopy, and particle radiation for applications in engineering for agricultural and biological systems. ITSC-348 members meet during ASABE annual international meeting. Committee members can be added to the roster throughout the year, but membership is ratified by other members during the committee meeting at the annual meeting when we have a quorum.

ITSC-348 Electromagnetics & Spectroscopy   
ITSC-348 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE for scientific developments in sonic, ultrasonic, electromagnetic, spectroscopy, and particle radiation for applications in engineering for agricultural and biological systems. ITSC-348 members meet during ASABE annual international meeting. Committee members can be added to the roster throughout the year, but membership is ratified by other members during the committee meeting at the annual meeting when we have a quorum.

MS-23 Tractors & Mach. for Ag & Forestry & US TAG ISO/TC 23   
MS-23 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to agricultural machine systems; the committee also develops the U.S. position for ISO TC 23 standardization activities related to tractors and machinery for agriculture and forestry. This committee typically meets at the AETC and the annual meeting, with virtual or conference calls as needed for specific topics.

MS-23/14 Ag Mach. - Sym., Disp & Man & US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC14   
MS-23/14 leads and coordinates activities related to the development and adoption of standards pertaining to symbols and manuals for agricultural machinery; it also develops the US position for ISO-related international standardization activities. MS-23/14 updates and maintains several national standards, and provides expertise and input for multiple international standards through the US Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for ISO/TC 23/SC 14. These standards cover topics including operator’s manual requirements, safety signs and hazard pictorials, and symbols for operator controls and other displays. Recent activity includes amendments to the ISO 3767 series (symbols for operator controls and other displays) and revisions of ISO 3600, Operator’s manuals – Content and format, and ISO 11684, Safety signs and hazard pictorials – General principles. Input from industry, academia, and regulators guide the committee’s work to keep these standards current and relevant to the agricultural industry. MS-23/14 meets biannually, at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE annual meeting. The committee also typically meets via teleconference to prepare for the annual ISO/TC 23/SC 14 plenary. Other meetings or conference calls are conducted as required.

MS-23/19 Ag Electronics & US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC 19   
This committee leads and coordinates US positions and development of internationals standards for electronics used on agricultural and forestry tractors and machinery for communication, precision agriculture, animal identification, security, identification, and safety. The committee serves as the administrative umbrella for several different standards-development subcommittees. The most notable technical activity of the committee is continued development and maintenance of the ISOBUS (ISO 11783) family of standards. Other technical subjects addressed by the committee currently include electric wireless communication, RF-ID, control systems, high power electrical off-boarding, and 48 V system safety. The committee typically meets face-to-face twice each year: at the ASABE annual meeting and at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. Most voting activity is handled using electronic ballots throughout the year. On occasion, special virtual meetings are called to discuss ballot results when they are needed. Members often attend international working groups for specific standards and an annual international plenary.

MS-23/19/1 Applications and data interfaces   
Coordinates standards development in the area of control and/or communications network systems for mobile agricultural equipment.

MS-23/19/11 Test   
Coordinates standards regarding electrical testing focused on ISO projects.

MS-23/19/3 Electronics for Identification (Animal)   
Coordinates standards development regarding electronics as applied to animal identification and tracking.

MS-23/19/5 Communication infrastructures   
Coordinates standards development in areas where wireless communications are used in agricultural applications, HiSpeed ISOBUS, authentication on ISOBUS.

MS-23/19/8 Safety and security   
Coordinates standards dealing with electronic safety and security.

MS-23/19/9 Components and electrical systems   
Coordinates standards regarding electrical components and electrical systems relating to ISO projects.

MS-23/19/JWG10   
Coordinates standards developed by the ISO Joint Working Group 10, TC 23/SC 19 members and ISO TC 127 members dealing with secure high speed mobile data communication.

MS-23/2 Ag Mach. - Common Tests & US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC 2   
MS-23/2 leads and coordinates ASABE’s development and adoption of agricultural machinery common test standards; develops the US position for ISO/TC23/SC2 standardization activities. MS-23/2 meets in person at the annual meeting and the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. The committee also meets via teleconference as required for consensus of ISO ballot votes and comments and to prepare for ISO TC23/SC2 plenaries.

MS-23/2/1 Environment Within Ag Vehicle Enclosures   
This subcommittee of MS-23/2 leads and coordinates ASABE activities in all matters relating to environmental control and air quality within agricultural vehicle enclosures. The committee typically meets in person biannually, at the annual meeting and the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. It also meets via teleconferences to consider ballot votes and discuss comments.

MS-23/2/2 ATSC ROPS Subcommittee   
This subcommittee of MS-23/2 leads and coordinates activities of ASABE in matters relating to agricultural tractor ROPS (rollover protective structures). This committee typically meets in person, at the annual meeting and at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference, with additional virtual or conference calls as needed.

MS-23/3 Ag Mach. - Safety and Comfort & US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC3   
MS-23/3 develops the US position for ISO/TC23/SC3 standardization activities for safety and comfort for agricultural and forestry tractors and machinery. The committee typically meets face-to-face twice each year, at the annual meeting and at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. When needed, special virtual meetings are called to discuss ballot results. Members often attend international working group meetings for specific standards and an annual international plenary.

MS-23/4 Tractors and US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC 4   
MS-23/4 leads ASABE activities in all matters relating to agricultural tractors. It also develops the US position for ISO/TC23/SC4 standardization activities for tractor-related standards. The committee meets biannually at the ASABE annual meeting and the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. It also uses teleconferences for discussion of ballots and related comments, and to prepare for upcoming ASABE or ISO meetings. Ballot votes and supporting information are always accessible online through ASABE Engage and Workspace.

MS-23/4/1 Agricultural Equipment Braking   
This subcommittee of MS-23/4 leads and coordinates ASABE’s activities in matters relating to braking standards for agricultural equipment, including agricultural tractors, self-propelled machines, and agricultural implements and trailers. The committee meets twice a year, at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the annual meeting. As the need arises, additional conference calls are possible.

MS-23/4/2 Agricultural Loaders   
One of several subcommittees of MS-23/4, this group maintains and promotes standards, engineering and safety practices, and data surrounding all aspects of agricultural front-end loaders, while maintaining a high standard of ethical practice. Generally, the committee meets annually during the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and twice virtually. Meetings are typically under two hours.

MS-23/4/3 Lighting & Marking   
MS-23/4/3 leads and coordinates the activities of the Machinery Systems technical community of ASABE in matters relating to the lighting and marking of agricultural equipment operated or travelling on public roads. The committee meets twice a year, at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the annual meeting. As the need arises, additional meetings or conference calls are possible.

MS-23/4/4 Tractor & Implement Hydraulics   
This committee leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to the use of hydraulic power on agricultural tractors and implements. MS-23/4/4 meets twice a year, at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the annual meeting. Additional meetings or conference calls are scheduled as needed.

MS-23/4/5 Tractor Implement Interface/PTO   
MS-23/4/5 leads and coordinates the activities of the ASABE Machinery Systems community in matters relating to tractor implement interface and power take-off for agricultural equipment. This committee typically meets at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE Annual International Meeting, with other meetings or conference calls as needed.

MS-23/6 Application Sys & US TAG ISO/TC23/SC6   
MS-23/6 develops and maintains standards for application systems. It also develops the US position for ISO/TC23/SC6 standardization activities relating to crop protection. The committee also sponsors technical sessions to facilitate the exchange of ideas related to application technologies and systems encouraging research and development in the field. The committee meets at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE Annual International Meeting, with virtual or conference calls as needed for specific topics.

MS-23/6/1 Liquid Materials Application   
MS-23/6/1 develops and maintains standards for liquid materials application systems and provides expertise to the US TAG for ISO TC 23/SC6. This committee identifies needs and best practices that are transformed into standards, as well as sponsors technical sessions to facilitate the exchange of ideas related to liquid application technologies encouraging research and development in the field of liquid application. The committee meets at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE Annual International Meeting, with virtual or conference calls as needed for specific topics.

MS-23/6/2 Aviation   
MS-23/6/2 identifies, documents, and assists in the coordination of agricultural aviation application research and development. It develops guidelines, recommendations, and standards, develops technical sessions for ASABE meetings, and sponsors symposia when appropriate. The committee meets annually at the ASABE Annual International Meeting and conducts virtual meetings as necessary.

MS-23/6/3 Dry Materials   
The MS-23/6/3 committee leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to the application of dry materials in agriculture and turf. The committee conducts the periodic review of existing standards and evaluates the need for standards or engineering practices related to aerial and drone delivery of dry materials. The committee holds a formal business meeting twice annually, at ASABE Annual International Meeting and at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. Other standards-focused meetings are called as needed.

MS-23/6/4 Spray Application Modeling   
This committee leads and coordinates the activities of the ASABE matters relating to computer simulation of crop protection chemical spray application. Activities include review of regulatory models used to develop pesticide labels by EPA as well as industry. The committee promotes modern approaches to simulation of agricultural spraying. In the past, MS-23/6/4 has held one six-hour meeting the Sunday prior to the main ASABE annual meeting, but changing this is a current matter of discussion within the committee. The committee is discussing holding a seminar in the relevant topic area.

MS-23/6/5 Anhydrous Ammonia Application Equipment   
The MS-23/6/5 committee leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to anhydrous ammonia application equipment. This committee meets annually at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference in February, and again in early fall for their annual meeting (if not otherwise on or around the ASABE annual meeting). Additional subgroup virtual or conference calls are held as needed.

MS-23/7 Harvest and US TAG ISO/TC 23/SC 7   
MS-23/7 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to the development and adoption of standards pertaining to engineering technology for agricultural harvest and conservation; it also develops the position of the United States for international standardization activities related to engineering technology for agricultural harvest and conservation. MS-23/7 updates and maintains multiple national standards and provides expertise and input for numerous international standards through the US TAG for ISO/TC 23/SC 7. These standards cover a wide variety of machine forms, including balers, rotary cutters, and self-propelled harvesting machines. The committee meets twice a year at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE annual meeting. As the need arises, additional conference calls are possible.

MS-23/7/1 Grain Harvesting   
The scope of this MS23/7 subcommittee encompasses all harvesting vehicles and attachments for the purpose of harvesting mature grains. The committee leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to the performance of grain harvesting systems in terms of machine, plant, and grain characteristics. The committee encourages the continuous improvement of grain harvesting systems and methods of evaluating their performance. The committee is interested in standards related to safe operation of harvesters, as well as standards for testing and benchmarking of harvesters. The committee works with various other MS committees to ensure cohesive standards for harvesting. It develops and maintains standards for matters related to machinery for gathering, threshing, cleaning, offloading, and managing residue associated with harvesting, matured grains. The committee also provides grain harvesting expertise to the US Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for ISO TC 23/SC 7. This committee typically meets once a year at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference. Other meetings or teleconferences may be scheduled as needed to make progress on standard reviews or revisions.

MS-23/7/2 Forage & Biomass Engineering   
MS-23/7/2 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to the mechanical aspects of harvesting, handling, storing, and processing of forages and biomass and derivatives therefrom. The committee as a subcommittee to MS-23/7 Harvest committee, providing forage and biomass expertise to the US Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for ISO TC 23/SC 7. This committee typically meets twice per year, at the Agricultural Equipment Technology Conference and the ASABE annual meeting. Other meetings or teleconferences may be scheduled as needed to make progress on standard reviews or revisions.

MS-23/7/3 Cotton Engineering   
This committee is a dynamic group of engineers strictly focused on its main goal of applying engineering solutions to cotton production, processing and postharvest handling. Current work in this committee includes the development of standards for air quality regulations for cotton gins, and performance standards for cotton module wrap. In addition to these standards, the committee also has members working on the following research projects: utilization of image analysis to determine cotton module wrap damage, improving and researching seed cotton storage; the utilization of John Deere’s Harvest Identification (HID) for Virtual Variety verification and fiber quality tracking; and the incorporation of robotics and machine vision into cotton production and processing. In addition to these activities the committee also sponsors and organizes the Cotton Engineering Systems Conference and the Ginning Conference at National Cotton Council’s Beltwide Cotton Conference each year. This committee is also responsible for sponsoring and voting on ASABE’s Mayfield Cotton Engineering Award. This committee typically meets in person twice a year, at ASABE’s annual meeting and at the Beltwide Cotton Conference. Emailing and voting may occur throughout the year.

MS-45 Soil-Plant-Machine Dynamics   
MS-45 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to soil dynamics research and its applications by establishing a mechanism whereby individuals involved in soil-machine, soil-plant and plant-machine dynamics research can meet, exchange ideas and information, and discuss problems of mutual interest in order to advance the state of the art. The MS-45 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual international meeting. Occasional collaboration takes place to work on current standards projects, and organizing oral technical sessions and poster presentations.

MS-48 Specialty Crop Engineering   
Leads and coordinates activities of ASABE in matters related to the engineering aspects of specialty crop production, post-harvest operations, storage, and distribution. Organize oral and poster sessions for ASABE annual international meetings. Establish collaboration among committee members, for example seeking funding from multi-institutional and multi-state federal programs. The committee normally meet once a year at AIM. The committee members have some other opportunities to meet such as W3009 annual meeting, and collaboration team meetings at different scales.

MS-49 Crop Production Systems, Machinery, and Logistics   
MS-49 provides expertise and leads efforts within ASABE for all matters related to equipment and logistics utilized in crop production and cropping systems. MS-49 maintains many different ASABE standards related to agricultural equipment terminology, design and testing. MS-49 also provides regular input to a number of ISO standards. Standards activity is a large part of this committee’s regular tasks. The committee meets annually at the international meeting, with its standards subcommittees meeting as needed virtually. Voting members are asked to evaluate and vote on standards actions throughout the year as the need arises.

MS-54 Precision Agriculture   
MS-54 provides expertise and leads efforts within ASABE on all topics related to precision agriculture. MS-54 membership is active in program and standards development. The committee regularly sponsors and co-sponsors technical sessions during the ASABE Annual International Meeting. MS-54 meets once per year during the ASABE Annual International Meeting. Voting members are asked to provide feedback and vote on standards.

MS-58 Agricultural Equipment Automation   
This committee leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to agricultural equipment automation, including the organization of professional development sessions. A single in-person meeting is held at the ASABE annual meeting. Communication on relevant standards and sessions occurs as needed throughout the year to ensure action items are completed in a timely manner.

MS-60 Unmanned Aerial Systems   
MS-60 plans and coordinates ASABE activities in matters related to all types of unmanned aerial systems, with a focus on agricultural applications for both production and research. Activity includes coordinating sessions of technical presentations on research with UAS in agriculture, providing input to various UAS standards efforts including that of ANSI. The MS-60 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting.

NRES-21 Hydrology Group   
The Hydrology group addresses the science of water in atmosphere and on earth’s surface and subsurface for understanding hydrologic science and principles on which to base engineering applications. The NRES-21 committee meets on an annual basis only during the ASABE annual meeting.

NRES-22 Soil Erosion and Water Quality   
This committee addresses soil erosion processes caused by water and wind; sediment and chemical transport and cycling; effects of sediment-associated and dissolved chemicals on water quality; and methods of erosion, sediment, and water pollution control. The NRES-22 committee, along with its 3-digit sub-committees, meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting, and virtually as needed.

NRES-223 Erosion Control Research   
Addresses contemporary and future research in the area of soil erosion mechanics, prediction, and control. The NRES-223 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting. Virtual meetings take place during the year when necessary to discuss ongoing projects.

NRES-224 Water Quality   
NRES-224 aims to lead in the quantification, prevention, and reduction of sediment and associated water quality pollutants resulting from surface runoff and other unintended consequences of anthropogenic activities on the landscape. NRES-224 assists in the coordination of research; develops guidelines, recommendations, or standards; and produces technical sessions for ASABE meetings and sponsor symposia. The NRES-224 committee meets annually at the annual meeting, with additional online collaboration on current standards projects.

NRES-225 Conservation Systems   
NRES-225 concerns systems and land management practices to reduce soil erosion, sediment delivery, and associated pollutant losses. The committee serves as a subcommittee for NRES 22 Soil Erosion and Water Quality and primarily assists in selecting the abstracts for and in organizing the ASABE annual meeting sessions. The NRES 225 committee meets annually at the annual meeting and at various teleconferences as needed.

NRES-23 Drainage Group   
Concerns research and education in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of drainage facilities and the quality of drainage water.

NRES-24 Irrigation Group   
The purpose of the NRES-24 Irrigation Group is to lead and coordinate ASABE activities in matters relating to planning, design, construction, management, operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities. NRES-24, together with its technical committees (NRES-24x), develops technical sessions for the ASABE annual meeting, oversees 23 technical standards, and responds to other needs from industry, academia, and the general public as appropriate. NRES-24 typically meets annually during the ASABE annual meeting. Frequent online collaboration takes place as needed to work on current projects.

NRES-241 Sprinkler Irrigation   
Addresses research and education needs associated with design, construction, operation, evaluation and maintenance of sprinkler irrigation systems.

NRES-242 Surface Irrigation & Water Supply   
This committee addresses research and education needs associated with design, construction, operation, evaluation, and maintenance of surface irrigation systems. NRES-242 meets annually at ASABE’s annual meeting. In addition, there may be two or three teleconferences or online meetings throughout the year as needed.

NRES-244 Irrigation Management   
NRES-244 leads and coordinates the Society’s activities in all aspects of operation and management of irrigation systems, including research, development, education and the development of standards. Activity includes the development of irrigation-scheduling decision support tools for both conventional and variable rate irrigation systems. Unmanned aerial vehicles are also being used to estimate crop water stress using proximal sensing technologies. The committee’s most recent standards activity deals with the standardization of precision agriculture irrigation language and measurements. NRES-244 meets at the annual meeting, and members have recently suggested holding additional virtual meetings to allow members to more easily participate in other NRES-24x subcommittees and to provide updates throughout the year.

NRES-245 Microirrigation   
The purpose of the NRES-245 Microirrigation group is to lead and coordinate the activities of ASABE in matters relating to microirrigation (drip irrigation, subsurface drip irrigation, microsprinklers). The group’s scope encompasses research, development, and education in design, construction, management, evaluation, and maintenance of microirrigation components and systems. NRES-245, which is part of the NRES 24X group of committees, develops technical sessions for the ASABE annual meeting, oversees technical standards, and responds to other needs from industry, academia, and the annual meeting. If necessary, online collaboration takes place as needed to work on current projects.

NRES-246 Turf & Landscape Irrigation   
Promotes appropriate engineering and science related to landscape irrigation systems design and water management.

NRES-25 Streams, Reservoirs, and Wetlands Group   
NRES-25 leads and coordinates ASABE activities related to planning, designing, constructing, operating, monitoring and managing stream, reservoir, and wetland systems, which provide essential services to people and planet. Committee activities are initiated during our annual meeting and include publications (e.g., the Special Collection on Wetland Resilience, and review articles on constructed wetland nutrient retention and streambank erodibility research forthcoming); workshops (e.g., on streambank erodibility assessment); standards (e.g., jet erosion test standard anticipated); and organizing technical sessions at the annual international meeting. NRES-25 and its three subcommittees (NRES-25x) meet annually at the annual meeting. Subcommittees and smaller work groups meet as needed throughout the year to accomplish committee activities.

NRES-251 Hydraulic Structures   
NRES-251 develops and improves the application of engineering research and design for water resource structures as they apply to streams, reservoirs, and wetlands. The scope may include the investigation, planning, design, construction, and operation of hydraulic structures. NRES-251 tries to bring content to water resources professionals through meaningful applied content in technical sessions and technical field tours. The NRES-251 committee meets annually at ASABE’s annual meeting. Virtual meetings take place to discuss ongoing projects during the year.

NRES-252 Geomrphlgy, Streambk Stblty & In-Stream Processes   
NRES-252 leads and coordinates ASABE activities related to planning, designing, operating, monitoring and managing in-stream processes including flow, erosion, sediment transport and water quality in stream systems. NRES-252 meets annually at ASABE’s annual international meeting and as needed throughout the year to accomplish committee activities.

NRES-253 Riparian Zones, Floodplains, & Wetlands   
This committee leads research dissemination and standards development for managing, operating, and maintaining the quality of riparian, floodplain, and wetland systems for the betterment of both the environment and humankind. The NRES-253 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting. Ad hoc subcommittees and smaller work groups meet as needed throughout the year to accomplish committee activities, typically those related to cooperative development of publications and standards.

NRES-26 Sustainable Land Resources   
This committee leads and coordinates ASABE’s activities in matters relating to standards, policies, planning, design and construction, operation and maintenance, evaluation, and outreach activities surrounding the treatment and management of agricultural byproducts and animal mortalities. The committee regularly updates relevant technical standards and develops new ones based on need. We usually meet annually at the annual meeting, with additional meetings for subcommittees tasked with review and revisions of technical standards.

NRES-262 Onsite Water Reuse   
Addresses issues on matters relating to onsite water reuse.

NRES-265 Soil and Groundwater Remediation   
Addresses issues related to soil and groundwater remediation technologies. Issues include physical, chemical and biological processes related to field, laboratory and modeling of remediation systems.

NRES-27 Ag By-products & Animal Mortality Management Systems   
This committee leads and coordinates ASABE’s activities in matters relating to standards, policies, planning, design and construction, operation and maintenance, evaluation, and outreach activities surrounding the treatment and management of agricultural byproducts and animal mortalities. The committee regularly updates relevant technical standards and develops new ones based on need. We usually meet annually at the annual meeting, with additional meetings for subcommittees tasked with review and revisions of technical standards.

NRES-28 Ecological Engineering   
NRES-28 promotes the development of sustainable ecosystems through knowledge and application of ecological engineering and ecological principles. The committee meets each year at the ASABE annual meeting. Online collaborations take place as required throughout the year to work on current projects.

P-515 Teaching and Learning Resources   
The purpose of P-515 is to encourage interest and support activity in the writing of textbooks, teaching materials, and monographs on appropriate subjects related to areas of interest to Society members. We facilitate the review of textbook and monograph proposals and make recommendations to Society headquarters relative to these proposals. We provide guidance in the editing and publication of approved manuscripts as outlined in the ASABE Guide for Authors. We maintain records showing the current status of all textbooks and monographs in preparation, and provide appropriate reports to the chair of the Publications Council. We encourage and assist in the presentation of programs that are useful in developing textbooks, teaching materials, and monographs. We follow the sales of these publications and make recommendation regarding reprints and revisions. We work closely with the Referreed Publications committee (P-511) to oversee the official peer-review process for teaching materials, and we make decisions regarding the awarding of funds from the Harold Pinches and Glenn Schwab Teaching Materials Fund, following the ASABE Foundation’s guidelines. P-515 reports to the Foundation on the expenditures and outcomes. We typically meet in person once a year at the ASABE annual meeting and then have electronic interaction on issues as needed.

PAFS-07/1 Agri-Industrial Facility Design and Operation   
Addresses web based facility design guides.

PAFS-20 Structures Group   
The PAFS Structures group addresses analysis, design, and construction of agricultural structures, imposed loads on structures, and materials of construction. PAFS-20 reviews and updates as necessary a number of standards related to design of agricultural structures, ASABE standards utilized in other structures, such as post frame building systems, and safety in and around agricultural structures. Standards review and development occurs throughout the year, and then the committee meets in person at the ASABE annual meeting. This committee operates using the consensus committee standard development system. New standards projects are initiated based on an identified need that the committee believes it and the Society are uniquely suited to address. This need may be identified by the committee members or may be from outside parties that solicit development from ASABE. New standards projects follow the ASABE standard approval and development process. Committee members of appropriate expertise are drawn from within and outside the committee, as needed. The PAFS-20 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting, and frequent online collaboration takes place to work on current standards projects.

PAFS-20/4 Bulk Solids Handling and Storage   
PAFS-20/4 leads and coordinates ASABE activities in matters relating to the handling and storage of bulk materials. The committee meets at the ASABE annual meeting, with additional phone conferences as needed.

PAFS-30 Plant Systems Group   
The purpose of PAFS-30 is to lead and coordinate the activities of ASABE in matters relating to developing and compiling fundamental engineering data and guides for providing growing plants with climatic and physical environments that will result in optimum production. Among its tasks are to identify, document, and assist in the coordination of environment of plant structures research and development; to maintain contact with individuals or groups having an interest in research and development in environment of plant structures; and to develop guidelines, recommendations, or standards for environment of plant structures in technical areas related to the committee purpose and scope. The committee also develops technical sessions for ASABE meetings and sponsors symposia when appropriate. PAFS-30 meets at the ASABE annual meeting.

PAFS-40 Facilities & Systems Group   
Leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to animal housing, facilities and system. Addresses systems for animal housing, agricultural waste management, and animal care. Comprises general membership with additional related interest groups focused on environmental structures, beef facilities, dairy facilities, swine facilities, poultry facilities, environmental physiology, animal welfare and milk handling equipment.

PAFS-403/1 Milk Handling Equipment   
The purpose of this committee is to provide engineering analysis and review of standards for milk handling equipment. The committee reviews ASABE/ISO standards for milk handling equipment every five years and participates in the review and development of ISO standards whenever that committee is activated (historically every ten years). The committee occasionally sponsors a technical session at the ASABE annual meeting. The committee meets as needed, typically annually, via conference call.

PAFS-50 Environmental Air Quality   
PAFS-50 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to all environmental air quality problems in agricultural enterprises influencing the design of livestock facilities, materials handling equipment, or agricultural harvesting and processing systems. The committee meets at ASABE’s annual meeting.

PRS-280 Bioconversion and Bioprocesses   
PRS-280 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters related to bioconversion and bioprocessing technologies. The committee meets once a year at the ASABE annual meeting.

PRS-293 US TAG for ISO TC 293 Feed Machinery   
The purpose of this committee is to represent U.S. interests in the development of international standards for stationary animal food manufacturing equipment. ISO/TC 293 is currently focusing on three areas: terminology, safety, and hygiene for stationary animal food manufacturing equipment. In a typical year, four to eight virtual meetings or conference calls, one in-person meeting, and one ISO plenary meeting are held.

PRS-326 Machinery for foodstuffs   
US TAG for ISO TC 326, Machinery intended for use with foodstuffs.

PRS-701 Physiochemical Properties of Biological Products   
PRS-701 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to the physical and chemical properties of biological products, such as food, feed, fiber, biomass, and related materials. We meet annually during the ASABE annual meeting, and we continue to engage throughout the year to address the duties and responsibilities assigned to us and important to our group.

PRS-702 Crop & Feed Processing & Storage   
PRS-702 leads and coordinates the activities of ASABE in matters relating to engineering and technology in the post-harvest processing, handling, and storage of crops and feed. Such crops include cereal grains, oilseeds, pulses, and specialty or low-volume crops for human consumption or use. Feeds include whole crops or processed products of the above list for animal consumption or use. Among the committee’s tasks are to identify, document, and assist in the coordination research and development for crop and feed processing, handling, and storage. The committee also maintains contact with individuals or groups having an interest in research, development, and technology transfer in crop and feed processing, handling, and storage. In addition, we develop guidelines, recommendations, or standards for crop and feed processing, handling, and storage in related technical areas, and we develop ASABE technical sessions and sponsor symposia when appropriate. The PRS-702 committee meets annually at the ASABE annual meeting. Occasionally, we come together to discuss current storage issues via webinars and other online collaborations.

PRS-703 Food Processing   
Concerns engineering design, modeling, optimization and control of process operations; including heating and cooling, pasteurization, sterilization, freezing, dehydration and concentration.

PRS-707 Food & Organic Waste Management & Utilization   
PRS-707 is an interest group for researchers working to avoid environmental harm and reclaim value by properly managing or repurposing food and agricultural waste materials and byproducts. We meet once annually at the ASABE annual meeting.
