OPTIMIZING ASABE AIM SESSION CREATION WITH TEXT CLUSTERING AND LLMSHIGHLIGHTS* An agglomerative clustering-based algorithm groups similar presentations to reach minimum session size.* The automated procedure creates more coherent initial sessions than traditional presenter self-selection.* The automated algorithm can identify session topics not realized by human session creators.* LLMs can create session title suggestions and keywords for automatically generated sessions.ABSTRACT. The traditional manual session organization at ASABE Annual International Meeting (AIM) is a time-consuming process that is frustrating for organizers. It is also frustrating for attendees when sessions are not thematically coherent. The proposed system leverages text embedding and Large Language Models (LLMs), to thematically cluster presentation submissions into sessions and generate relevant session titles and keywords. Text embedding models determined similarity between submissions based on their titles and abstracts. This was followed by an agglomerative clustering algorithm to form sessions based on topic similarity and size constraints. This process was tested on the AIM 2025 submissions for the Information Technology, Sensors and Controls (ITSC) community to create 21 sessions to replace the initial set of 21 sessions created using the traditional presenter self-selection process. These automatically generated initial sessions were more coherent and all above the minimum size of eight. The system also successfully identified emergent topic clusters that were not previously identified using the traditional process. Experiments using LLMs to generate title suggestions and keywords used Google’s gemini-2.0-flash and Meta’s llama-3.2-3b with three prompts which included either no example, a minimal example, or a full example. The LLMs could identify appropriate session titles and create keywords to describe the topics of presentations within each session. More complete examples improved LLM outputs, but it also created unexpected and undesirable style mimicry. While the LLMs are helpful, human oversight is necessary to refine these suggestions, ensure variety, and accurately capture the full thematic breadth of sessions. Keywords. Natural Language Processing, Session Creation, Conference Organization, ASABE Annual International Meeting, Automation  A perennial challenge in organizing ASABE’s Annual International Meeting (AIM) is creating compelling sessions from presentation abstracts that are submitted to the open Call for Papers. Over 1000 abstracts (specifically 1249 for AIM 2025) are submitted for consideration as oral presentations within oral technical research sessions. The manual process of organizing presentations has been a consistent source of frustration for both the organizers and the attendees who complain of disorganized sessions at the meeting.   The traditional workflow starts at AIM where technical committees propose titles and assign organizers for sessions that they would like to sponsor at the next AIM. This list of approximately 100 potential technical sessions is included in the Call for Papers. In January, presenters submit their presentation abstracts in response to the Call for Papers and select one of these technical sessions. Some sessions receive minimal submissions while others are heavily oversubscribed because the committee titles proposed by committees rarely align with the number of submissions on any given topic. More problematically, many submissions are placed incorrectly or in sessions to which they are only tangentially related. Over the subsequent months, the volunteer session organizers attempt to create cohesive groupings by swapping presentations with other organizers and restructuring sessions.  This process is stressful as organizers with undersubscribed sessions must search through all the submitted abstracts in an attempt to find presentations that other organizers are willing to give up. For topics that are unexpectedly popular and end up wildly oversubscribed, the session organizers must cut many worthwhile presentations. Alternatively, they may try to talk technical program chairs into cutting other sessions to free up space for them to split their oversubscribed session into multiple sessions. The undersubscribed sessions are the most likely to be cut. This can turn this initial organization process into a competition between session organizers to determine what topics end up represented in the oral sessions at the conference.   Beyond the time-consuming and stressful nature of the current system, there are inherent limitations with this fragmented process. No individual organizer has comprehensive knowledge across all biological and agricultural engineering domains making it impossible to properly review every abstract for optimal placement. Session organizers have a limited view of the entire body of submitted abstracts and cannot always recognize related submissions that would benefit from consolidation into one session. Finally, the large amount of cross-disciplinary research in ASABE creates additional challenges as placement can be ambiguous.   Our previous research demonstrated the effectiveness of text embedding models to provide objective measurements of the similarity between presentation abstract content (Dvorak, 2025c). This current work builds on those similarity metrics to automate the initial session creation process. We present an automated process to identify topic clusters and then describe a method to use Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate suggested session titles and keyword lists that accurately reflect the topics of these clusters. This computational approach addresses the information overload and visibility problems that have historically hindered the traditional session organization process.AUTOMATED INITIAL SESSION CREATION  The goal of this project is not to automatically create final sessions. Rather, we intend to create an AI system that supports and augments human efforts. This effort aims to replace the ineffective initial session placement by that has historically been done by presenter self-selection. Ideally, each session organizer would start the session organization process with a group of 9 to 10 highly related submissions plus a few other similar submissions. The assigned session organizer would be an expert on the topic and would have expressed interest in organizing a session on that topic. The core cluster of nine to ten highly related submissions ensures that the human session organizer has sufficient submissions to create a coherent session of the minimum size. The additional similar submissions provide the organizer flexibility if they deem one of the core submissions repetitive or unsuitable or if they want to broaden the scope to include related potential future directions for research in that topic. In this improved system, session organizers start with a focus on curating, fine-tuning and organizing for audience engagement. The process would no longer start with a demoralizing effort to fill undersubscribed sessions or cut submissions from oversubscribed sessions. SESSION CREATION – TEXT CLUSTERING AND ASSIGNMENT OPTIMIZATION  Automated session creation relies on two related problems – Text Clustering and Assignment Optimization. Traditional text clustering focuses on grouping texts so that texts in a group are more similar to each other than to those in different groups (Steinbach et al., 2000). This is useful for organizing data, news articles, messages, support questions and many other fields(Meltebrink et al., 2022). On the other hand, Assignment Optimization is a well-defined field within operations research. It is focused on finding optimal assignments of items (presentation submissions in this case) to bins/agents/groups (sessions in this case). It aims to maximize a defined objective function while respecting given constraints. This mathematical approach is crucial for problems requiring the formation of effective groups or the best possible distribution of resources, such as creating thematically cohesive conference sessions. In this application, the techniques in text clustering are combined with the concepts of assignment optimization under constraints to place presentation submissions in the best session.    Clustering text based on meaning is a multiple step process. Once vector embeddings have been created, these vectors must be processed to determine similarity relationships between texts. A clustering algorithm is then applied to these similarities to identify clusters and assign texts to each cluster (Grootendorst, 2022). Earlier approaches utilized the Bag-of-Words (BoW) and Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) which created sparse vectors (Ramos, 2003). Various clustering methods were used, but varieties of K-Means and agglomerative clustering were most frequent (Ramos, 2003). With K-Means clustering, the items are divided into k partitions with each partition defined by its centroid. The K-Means algorithm refines the placement of the centroids and thus the partitions. With agglomerative clustering all items are initialized as singleton clusters. At each step, the algorithm identifies the two ‘closest’ items and merges them into a cluster. This process continues with items and clusters merging step by step until the entire set of items is merged into a single cluster. This hierarchical merging process creates a tree of merges called the dendrogram. Clusters are formed from agglomerative clustering by defining a threshold distance at which the merging stops or by stopping the merging process at a given number of clusters (“Scikit-learn: AgglomerativeClustering,” 2025).  More recent advances create dense vectors based on the semantic meaning of the text rather than just term frequency. Early semantic meaning methods like Word2Vec (Mikolov et al., 2013) and Global Vectors for Word Representation (GloVe) (Pennington et al., 2014) have been replaced with methods based on transformers (Vaswani et al., 2017) like Bidirectional Encoder Representation from Transformers (BERT) (Devlin et al., 2019) and Sentence-BERT (SBERT) (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). Embedding models have advanced even further with the rise of LLMs and their ability to accurately represent meaning from text (Lee et al., 2025; Nussbaum and Duderstadt, 2025). These most recent LLM embeddings represent a significant adjustment in the process of deriving meaning from text. Newer clustering approaches such as HDBSCAN enable creating clusters of various shapes based on density, which has proven valuable  in many text clustering efforts (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). In general, these clustering approaches attempt to optimize for clusters that are clearly delineated from other clusters. Control over the number of items per cluster is limited. There is ongoing research on methods to cluster text and the importance of various steps in the processing pipeline (Petukhova et al., 2025). New text clustering applications like Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020) have also appeared, which is driving a proliferation of processing pipelines based on particular use cases (Aarsen, 2025).   Unlike the general text clustering case, for this application, there are a set number of clusters/sessions based on meeting room availability. The clusters must also meet a minimum size as sessions must contain a certain number of presentations. While there is a limit on the final session size at the conference, for this initial sort, there is not a strict maximum size. Some presentation submissions will likely be moved to posters or cancelled before the session is finalized, so it is acceptable to add extra submissions to an initial session grouping. These extra submissions provide the organizer with flexibility in setting session format (larger lightning sessions or smaller traditional sessions) and selecting the best presentations for that session. The primary clustering challenge within this context is to create the desired number of sessions in a way that maximizes the overall quality and thematic coherence.  This type of allocation task is formally addressed in operations research by the Generalized Assignment Problem (GAP) (Ross and Soland, 1975). In this application of the GAP, the “tasks” (in this case, presentations) are assigned to a set of “agents” (conference sessions) with capacity constraints (sessions must contain certain numbers of presentations). Task (presentation submission) assignment must be done to maximize profit (session coherence). Each task (presentation submission) is assigned to exactly one agent (session). The GAP is known to be NP-hard, so the time required to find the optimum solution scales at least polynomially if not exponentially with the number of items to be assigned. Therefore, finding optimal solutions at large-scale is computationally prohibitive. This necessitates the use of heuristic algorithms to find high-quality, practical solutions (Cattrysse and Van Wassenhove, 1992).   While this combination of text clustering and allocation may be novel within agriculture, allocation of tasks among multiple agents to maximize a cost or benefit function is a common research topic. This type of optimization and heuristic approach has been critical in path planning to build routes in the field (Bochtis and Vougioukas, 2008; Hameed et al., 2011; Jin and Tang, 2010) or to distribute those routes among multiple in-field robots or traditional farm machines (Cao et al., 2021; Ju et al., 2022; Pandey et al., 2021; Seyyedhasani and Dvorak, 2017). It has also been used for larger scale optimization of wireless sensor network layout on tea plantations  (Manman et al., 2021) or irrigation and crop rotation patterns (Mello et al., 2013). At an even larger scale, these approaches have been used to optimize the design of entire biomass production and conversion facility systems (Berry and Sessions, 2018b, 2018a). So, while assignment based on text similarity may be unique, the fundamental problem of assignment under constraints is a familiar issue in agriculture.SESSION CREATION – CHARACTERIZATION AND NAMING  Clustering will place objects in groups, but it does not provide any further information. Additional analysis is necessary to describe the group and to determine what it represents. This description can take the form of keywords or suggested session titles, which will enable conference organizers to assign final session organizers to each cluster. Fortunately, LLMs can be used for this task. LLMs were developed within the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP), and they have proven much more adept at text summarization than earlier methods (Zhang et al., 2025). Their use of neural networks to map concepts at a deeper level provides greater understanding of the fundamental meaning of the text (Templeton et al., 2024). Subsequent text generation can be based on this understanding. Many models are fine tuned to improve their ability to follow instructions and channel this understanding toward specific outputs (Ahn, 2024). This enables the summarization to take more useful and directed forms, such as group titles or keywords that describe a set of texts.  Although LLMs are a recent breakthrough, researchers are already determining ways to use them to improve agricultural operations. Safety has been one application area. LLMs have been used to automatically classify agricultural injury reports (Muller et al., 2024). They have also been used in outreach and communication efforts to share best practices for safe agricultural work (Shutske, 2023; Shutske et al., 2025). Researchers have also begun investigating ways that these tools can be misused for disinformation campaigns to harm agricultural operations (Stephen et al., 2024) or used to generate synthetic data to model livestock responses to various climate scenarios (Eckhardt et al., 2024, 2025). These varied initial applications demonstrate the potential of LLMs within agriculture and highlight that it is a dynamic field with new opportunities and challenges. AI AND LLMS FOR CONFERENCE ORGANIZATION  ASABE is not unique in trying to improve conference organization with AI tools and LLMs. An early example is OpenReview, first introduced in 2013 at the International Conference on Machine Learning, with a focus on matching conference papers with peer reviewers (Soergel et al., 2013). The web-based platform has expanded to support other conferences, but it is still primarily focused on the peer review aspect of conference organization for conferences where peer review is an important feature of that process (OpenReview, 2025). In a contemporary project, the organizers of the Informatics Summit for the American Medical Informatic Association (AMIA) used embedding models and LLMs for presentation placement and session creation (Luo et al., 2025), which is similar to the approach discussed here. Their system also incorporated peer-review as a key component of the process, but they found that generic or automated systems like OpenReview or the Toronto Paper Matching System (Charlin and Zemel, 2013) fell short in meeting the specific needs of the conference. These other methods differ from the ASABE approach in requiring an initial peer review process to select which papers will be presented. This leads to a different grouping process with strict numerical limits as session organizers are not responsible for selecting final presentations and curating their sessions for audience engagement. As pointed out by the AMIA organizers (Luo et al., 2025), it is important to build these processes considering the needs of the conferences and organizations that will deploy them. OBJECTIVE AND GOAL  The overall goal for this process is to replace the initial session creation process based on presenter self-selection with an automated process based on thematic coherence and the research topics within the abstracts submitted to the conference Call for Papers. With a better starting point, session organizers should be more prepared to create compelling, thematic sessions that will draw viewers and generate discussion. To test this approach, this manuscript focuses on the results when applying this process to the abstracts submitted for consideration by committees and organizers from the Information Technology, Sensors and Controls (ITSC) community for inclusion in oral sessions at AIM 2025. For AIM 2025, there were 1249 submissions for 100 available oral sessions. Of these, 336 submissions were to the 21 sessions organized by the ITSC community. The specific objectives of this study were to: 1. Design and test a clustering algorithm to improve session coherence scores2. Test LLMs for identifying keywords for sessions3. Test LLMs for proposing potential session namesMETHODS  The requirements for sessions at ASABE AIM drive this process so they are defined first. This is followed by a description of the initial dataset of presentation abstracts submitted to ASABE AIM though the Call for Papers. This provides a baseline to understand the current challenges with the traditional session organization approach. The proposed processing pipeline is then presented. The Python Jupyter notebook used to run the automated session creation process and analyze the results is available in a public GitHub repository (Dvorak, 2025b) and a data visualization tool that allows interactive exploration of the data presented here is available online through a Streamlit application (Dvorak, 2025a). SESSION REQUIREMENTS  The final sessions at AIM must contain 8 to 10 presentations for a standard session or 12 to 16 presentations for a lightning panel session.  The entire session organization process incorporates automated algorithms and human organization. It begins after the initial data cleaning has removed duplicate, accidental, incomplete and otherwise unsuitable submissions. The algorithm conducts the initial placement, while humans are responsible for judging the interest of the audience in the final content of a particular session.   Creating a more automated system for initial session creation required making some assumptions, and the following assumptions were made to guide this process:1. Closely related presentations should be placed together in the same session. 2. All submissions are acceptable for oral presentations.3. The minimum session size is a hard limit.4. Session size upper bounds represent an initial target, but overloading sessions is acceptable.5. Posters are acceptable for even high-quality presentations that cannot be thematically grouped into a session of the appropriate size.6. Outliers can be novel ideas that stretch a field or just misplaced or isolated projects. 7. Outliers should be grouped with the most relevant session for later evaluation. 8. Human organizers will use these initial placements and build final sessions based on thematic compatibility.  There are several implications of these assumptions. For the first assumption, this sets the initial algorithmic goal of finding highly related submission and placing them in the same session. The second assumption assumes that all submission have been reviewed and judged acceptable as oral presentations. A less compelling presentation may still be desired if it helps a particular topic reach the minimum size threshold for a particular session type. Assumption three provides for this by focusing on creating complete sessions first. Eight presentations is a hard lower bound as presentations are not added after session organization.  Based on assumption four, if the algorithm continues to find related submission, they are added to the most relevant session. However, the preference is to split clusters on thematic lines if full sessions can be created instead. With the focus on creating sessions that are compelling to the audience, assumption five becomes important as some very high-quality submissions may not match the theme of any particular session. Rather than reworking sessions to force the inclusion of potentially unrelated presentations, it is assumed that non-oral poster sessions can provide a suitable venue for a more eclectic mix of interesting presentations. The final three assumptions focus on outliers and how to handle outliers. Grouping them with the most similar session enables human organizers to evaluate if they match the theme of the session or not (final assumption). Human organizers may decide to create a session focusing narrowly on a single topic and leave out outliers or they may drop highly related presentations as repetitive to make room for more exploratory research in the same field. INITIAL PRESENTATION DISTRIBUTION  There were 336 presentation abstracts submitted for consideration as oral presentations within the Information Technology, Sensors and Controls (ITSC) community at ASABE’s AIM 2025 after removing duplicates, near duplicates (i.e. typo correction resubmission) and incomplete submissions. The ITSC community was allotted 21 oral sessions for AIM 2025, and during AIM 2024, committees selected possible session titles. During submission, presenters selected one of these 21 titles for presentation placement consideration. While other technical communities have found success with this self-placement process, for ITSC, this resulted in a highly uneven distribution (Figure 1) of between 1 and 49 submissions per session. To create sessions of appropriate sizes of 8 to 10 or 12 to 16 presentations, there would have to be significant reorganization of the sessions. With 336 presentations, an even distribution would create 21 sessions of 16 presentations each. While this is an acceptable size for lightning panel sessions, many presentations would need to be moved to poster presentations to provide diversity of session type.   Figure 1. Initial ITSC presentation distribution for AIM 2025 by presenter self-selection into sessions titles suggested during AIM 2024. INITIAL SESSION COHERENCE  For these 336 submissions, similarity was determined by using the cde-small-v1 text embedding model on the titles and abstract [formatted as Title: Abstract] to create embedding vectors. Similarity between every pair of submissions was then calculated using the cosine similarity between their representative embedding vectors. The cosine similarity provides a value between 0 and 1 with 1 representing a perfect topic match. The average similarity for each submission to all other submissions regardless of session was 0.54. Likewise, the maximum and minimum similarities between any two submissions regardless of session placement were 0.93 and 0.22, respectively. These similarity values (average, minimum, and maximum) provide a baseline comparison level for all abstracts submitted to the ITSC community. A conference with well-defined, coherent sessions will have presentations with high similarity in the same session, and presentations with very low similarities scores in different sessions. This provides the session coherence metric, which is the average similarity between presentations in same session and is defined as:  	SC(s_j )=1/|s_j |(|s_j |-1)  ∑_?(p_i?s_j@?(p_k?s_j@p_i≠p_k ))?sim(p_i, p_k ) 	(2)where:  SC(s_j ) = the Session Coherence for session s_j?,  ∑_?(p_i?s_j@?(p_k?s_j@p_k≠p_i ))?sim(p_i, p_k ) ??? = the sum the cosine similarities over all pairs of distinct presentations (p_i, p_k ) within the session s_j?, ignoring self-similarity, hence p_i≠p_k?, and  |s_j |(|s_j |-1) = number of all possible pairs of presentations (p_i, p_k ) within the session s_j?.  If presentations are well organized, the session coherence should be higher than the average similarity between presentation submissions as a whole. The process of calculating similarities and methods for calculating similarities is described in Dvorak (2025c).   Clustering algorithms often operate on distance measurements, so the cosine distance, which is one minus the cosine similarity was used in this project. Like cosine similarity, cosine distance also varies from 0 to 1, but with cosine distance, a 0 represents an exact topic match, which only occurs when comparing identical texts.  For sessions with more than one submission, session coherence ranges from 0.51 to 0.78 (Figure 2). However, the highest similarities only occurred in the sessions with 2 or 3 presentations. The average session coherence for all sessions with more than one submission was 0.60. Four of these initial sessions had coherence worse than the overall average for all ITSC submissions of 0.54. These four represent poorly grouped initial sessions.    Figure 2. Session coherence for each session based on presentations as submitted to the Call for Papers.PROCESS FOR AUTOMATIC SESSION CREATION  This process (Figure 3) was based on agglomerative clustering and utilized the linkage matrix, which is a central concept from this clustering approach. The linkage matrix was generated using the ‘average’ method for evaluating the cosine distance between clusters of submissions (The SciPy community, 2025). As with the standard agglomerative clustering method, this clustering process iteratively merged the most similar submissions or clusters. However, unlike the standard process, this merging stopped once a cluster reached the minimal acceptable session size of eight presentations. At this point, the full cluster represented a session. Submissions or clusters that would have been merged into a full cluster were instead considered the start of a new cluster. Once the algorithm created enough full clusters to reach the maximum number of sessions (21 in this case), the process switched modes. The session cores had all been identified. Remaining unassigned presentation submissions were then added into the existing session with which they shared the highest average similarity to fill clusters.  Figure 3. Flowchart for session creation algorithm  Based on preliminary testing, it was critical that the algorithm switched from cluster creation to cluster filling. If the maximum number of sessions was set too high, the algorithm would keep creating sessions and would never switch to filling them. When this happened, the last few sessions created at the end were overly broad and contained an assortment of dissimilar presentations left over when various clusters first reached the minimum session size. If the maximum number of sessions is unknown, the algorithm also supported triggering the switch between session creation and session filling once a certain percentage of the submissions had been placed. SESSION NAMING AND KEYWORD GENERATION  LLMs were employed to provide potential session names and to generate keywords that characterized the session. This process was managed through the Python interfaces for each model. For each clustered session, the combined titles and abstracts of its constituent presentations were provided as input to the LLMs through a constructed prompt. This prompt asked the model to generate three alternative session titles and five descriptive keywords that highlighted the commonalities among the presentations within that session. Structured output was used to record the outputs. Each prompt request was a one-shot implementation with a new context for each prompt request. Two different LLMs (Google’s gemini-2.0-flash and Meta’s llama-3.2-3b-instruct-q8_0) and three different prompt formats were tested in this process. The models represent a closed-source, cloud-based option and a locally hosted, open-weights option. The prompts varied in the specificity of the examples that were provided to the model.  In the prompts given below, the bold text highlights the example text that changed between prompts, and italicized text was replaced with the actual titles and abstracts for that session.  The prompt without an example was: I am organizing oral research presentation sessions for the American Society of Biological and Agricultural Engineers Annual International Meeting. Please provide 3 options for the name/title of a session. Also provide 5 keywords describing the session. The name and keywords should highlight the commonality among all presentations. The target audience for titles and keywords is engineering designers and researchers. The title should be descriptive of the content and be interesting and engaging. The titles and abstracts for presentations assigned to this session are:["Title: Abstract1", "Title: Abstract2", "Title: Abstract3"…]  The prompt with the minimal example was:I am organizing oral research presentation sessions for the American Society of Biological and Agricultural Engineers Annual International Meeting. Please provide 3 options for the name/title of a session. Also provide 5 keywords describing the session. The name and keywords should highlight the commonality among all presentations. The target audience for titles and keywords is engineering designers and researchers. The title should be descriptive of the content and be interesting and engaging. Please respond in this format {     'title_1': 'Session Title',     'title_2': 'Session Title',     'title_3': 'Session Title',     'keywords': 'keyword1, keyword2, keyword3, keyword4, keyword5'    }The titles and abstracts for presentations assigned to this session are:["Title: Abstract1", "Title: Abstract2", "Title: Abstract3"…]  The prompt with the full example was:I am organizing oral research presentation sessions for the American Society of Biological and Agricultural Engineers Annual International Meeting. Please provide 3 options for the name/title of a session. Also provide 5 keywords describing the session. The name and keywords should highlight the commonality among all presentations. The target audience for titles and keywords is engineering designers and researchers. The title should be descriptive of the content and be interesting and engaging. Please respond in this format {     'title_1': 'Robotic Vision and Actuation: Advancing Precision Weed Management in Agriculture',     'title_2': 'AI-Driven Weed Control: From Smart Sprayers to Autonomous Robotics',     'title_3': 'Next-Generation Weed Management: Integrating Deep Learning, Robotics, and Advanced Sensing',     'keywords': 'Robotics, Machine Vision, Precision Agriculture, Weed Control, Artificial Intelligence'    }The titles and abstracts for presentations assigned to this session are:["Title: Abstract1", "Title: Abstract2", "Title: Abstract3"…]  For both models, outputs were constrained to a particular JSON format using response schema. Google’s Gemini was accessed through the Google GenAI Python library. For Meta’s llama-3.2-3b, an 8-bit quantized, instruction-tuned version, llama-3.2-3b-instruct-q8_0, from the Hugging Face repository was used (Hugging Quants, 2024). It was run with the Llama.cpp Python library (Andrei, March 23, 2023/2025).  The suggested titles and abstracts produced by the models were stored in a Pandas dataframe and then exported as a spreadsheet. Text matching tools within the spreadsheet program were used to analyze the outputs. This included determining if an output was correctly provided as well as identifying patterns and counting frequencies of certain language structures in the results.RESULTSPRESENTATION SIMILARITY  This dendrogram (Figure 4) visualizes the structure of presentation topics, based on similarity (cosine distance from embeddings, clustered with average linkage). In this dendrogram, subtrees are depicted with different colors using a cutoff threshold of 70% of the maximum distance (the default for SciPy’s dendrogram function), which is a cosine distance of 0.391 for this dataset. Many of these subtrees exhibit strong internal coherence with low intra-cluster distances. Most agglomerations complete below this cutoff cosine distance. These represent well-separated, statistically distinct groupings based on embedding similarity.  Figure 4. Dendrogram of the similarity of all presentations submitted for consideration as oral presentations in the ITSC community at AIM 2025.ISSUES WITH BASIC TEXT CLUSTERING  Translating the topic map revealed by the dendrogram into a practical session schedule presents challenges inherent in the clustering structure. Applying a single distance threshold across the entire dendrogram—a common approach for defining clusters—leads to many too-small or too-large sessions. As illustrated by the overall structure (Figure 4), using the 0.391 threshold results in clusters of widely varying sizes. For instance, the large orange cluster contains 88 presentations. The large yellow/green cluster contains 64. However, at this threshold, 17 presentations remain singletons (individual presentations, shown as a blue line reaching the lower boundary in Figure 1). These singletons do not merge with any other presentation below this threshold.   Individual, local cutoffs within each subtree could be another approach. However, these are also problematic. Inevitably, some presentations end up as singletons with any cutoff threshold – even locally adjusted. One cause of this is an internal clustering structure known as chaining. This pattern emerges when, after an initial tight core of highly similar presentations forms (merging at low cosine distance), the cluster grows primarily by adding subsequent presentations one-by-one or in very small groups, but at significantly and often progressively higher cosine distances. This indicates a sharp decrease in topic similarity between the core and these later additions.   Internal structure creates complications in other ways as demonstrated by the orange and red subtrees (Figure 5). Within each subtree, an initial pair of presentations merge (131 and 230 for orange, and 67 and 211 for red). After this initial merge, the next three (for orange) or four (for red) additions to the group are single presentations (chaining). The entire orange subtree consists of 9 presentations and the red tree consists of 10. Each of these clusters could constitute a full standard session based on the size limit of 8 to 10 presentations. With these clusters and these size limits, chaining does not present a problem within the subtree. However, turning each of these clusters into full sessions would leave out the green subtree. Its three presentations are too small to be a stand-alone session but merging them with the red cluster would make the resulting group of 13 presentations too small for a lightning panel and too large for a standard session. Additionally, merging all three subtrees would create a cluster of 22 presentations which is too large for any session type.  Figure 5. Three subtrees from the larger dendrogram of the hierarchical similarity of presentations illustrating issues with internal structure for simple threshold-based clustering approaches.AUTOMATED SESSION CREATION ALGORITHM  The automated procedure successfully created the target number of 21 sessions (Figure 6). Each session contained at least 8 presentations, the minimum acceptable. Since overloading of sessions was permissible with this algorithm, eight sessions had more than the maximum permitted of 16 presentations, so further processing would be necessary by human organizers as expected.   Figure 6. Session size for each of the sessions based on automated session creation  The sessions creating using the clustering process had an average session coherence of 0.64 with a worst-case session coherence of 0.60 (Figure 7). This represents an improvement over the original sessions based on presenter submissions, which had an average session coherence of 0.60 and minimum of 0.51. With automated placement, the worst-case session coherence matched the average from human-based submissions.   Figure 7. Session coherence for each of the sessions based on automated session creation  As hoped, the automated session creation process was also able to identify topic clusters that were not represented in the initial proposed session name list. As an example, a cluster was identified (session number 13) consisting of 18 presentations focused on ITSC applications in livestock production. There was no proposed session title focused on livestock and ITSC topics, and the submitters originally placed their presentations in seven different sessions. This spread makes it difficult for human organizers to identify this potential common theme and pull these presentations together. Table 1. Presentations identified using clustering for a potential session on information technology, sensors and controls applied to livestock.Presentation TitleSubmitted Session CodeMonitoring chicken farms using rail surveillance system and deep learningMachine Vision for Precision Agriculture and RoboticsMonitoring Through Deep Learning: Poultry AFO DetectionMachine Vision for Precision Agriculture and RoboticsRemote Animal Health Management with Server-side AI-ML Developed Application of Streamed RFID-supported Movement-Signal TelemetryMachine Vision for Precision Agriculture and RoboticsAutomated Detection of Farrowing Events in Commercial Pig Farms Using Deep LearningMachine Vision for Precision Agriculture and RoboticsEnhancing precision and adaptability of image-based cattle identification: A multi-scale feature fusion and efficient training optimization-based methodMachine Vision for Precision Agriculture and RoboticsEnhancing foreign material detection in poultry processing plants using thermal imaging and vision-based systemsMachine Vision Applications in Agriculture and Food ProcessingNovel Cannibalism index of Grouper Juvenile in High-Density Aquaculture using Density Map and Optical FlowMachine Vision Applications in Agriculture and Food ProcessingAn Automated Detection Method for Sheep Bilateral Eye Temperatures Based on Improved YOLO113D Machine Vision for Sensing and AutomationDyrep-MAMBA: Enhancing Beef Cattle Weight Estimation with Multi-Task Feature Fusion for Practical Applications3D Machine Vision for Sensing and AutomationAutomatic Weight Measurement of Group-Raised Pigs Based on DBO-SVR3D Machine Vision for Sensing and AutomationEnhanced Piglet Monitoring with a Multiview Camera System3D Machine Vision for Sensing and AutomationAI-Driven Multi-Camera Surveillance and Mapping for Precision Cattle Behavior MonitoringAdvanced Machine LearningAutomating Livestock Mixed Formulation and Feed Quality Control Using Semantic SegmentationAdvanced Machine LearningPrecision Detection of the Real-Time Health and Welfare Conditions of Pigs Using Deep Learning TechniquesAdvanced Machine LearningDesign and Optimization of a Precision Air Jet Cooling System to Alleviate Heat Stress in Dairy Cattle Using Computational Fluid DynamicsDigital Twins, DEM, and CFD Applications in AgricultureOptimized Stall Design to Reduce Heat Stress in Dairy Cattle within Mechanically Ventilated Barns Using Computational Fluid DynamicsDigital Twins, DEM, and CFD Applications in AgricultureNon destructive testing method for lamb shelf life based on multimodal data fusionAnalytical, Computational and Instrumentation Advances for BiosensingA Robotic Livestock Feed Consumption Monitoring System for Dairy FarmRobotics and AI-Enabled Robotics for Agrifood Systems  Implications of automated session creation  The automated process created sessions that were more evenly distributed than the original submissions. It also ensured that these new sessions had a higher coherence than the original submissions. Perhaps most importantly, the automated session creation algorithm was able to identify at least one topic cluster within the submitted presentations that did not appear in the original session name list. These factors point to a new opportunity to use automated session creation as a better starting point for the human session creation process. This automated process does not rely on careful selection of possible topics for future sessions by meeting attendees. Nor does it depend so heavily on presenters carefully submitting their presentations to the proper session or the mood of organizers in communicating with other organizers to ensure the best placement of all presentations.   While promising, automated session creation does have some drawbacks. First, these automatically created sessions may contain presentations that are all on a similar topic, but the process does not automatically describe what that topic is. This problem leads to the necessity for a follow-up naming process. Second, the session names can provide important context information to submitters during the Call for Papers. The submitters will learn specific research topics that committees and organizers are expecting. Does this assist potential submitters in identifying ASABE AIM as a place for presenting research and encourage more submissions? Committee names or other keywords for research topics could help reassure potential presenters that AIM is the proper location for their research, but these lists may not have the same immediacy and clarity as a proposed session title at communicating that. On the other hand, these lists can also discourage presenters who do not find an exact match for their research in the pre-defined list, so removing the full list could encourage more applications in emerging areas or cross-disciplinary research.  The current process selects organizers for each session at the beginning of the process. These organizers have a specific interest in each of the proposed topics. Without the session proposal process, session organizers would still need to be identified and then matched with the most appropriate session. Another process would need to be developed for this step. Finally, some well-established, long-term research communities may propose sessions and submit their research to those specific sessions to ensure their presentations are kept together. This can ensure long-term continuity, collaboration and the development of a research community. Switching from the current process could negatively impact this community development aspect. To ensure these communities continue, it may be necessary to utilize invited or hybrid sessions to ensure certain presentations remain together. The current algorithm does not handle hybrid sessions where presentations submitted to the Call for Papers are combined with invited presentations, but this could be easily accommodated by prepopulating certain clusters with the invited presentations as the clustering process starts. The automated session creation process provides important benefits, but it will need to be implemented carefully. NAMING AND KEYWORDS  Generative AI models were useful in identifying the topics within the proposed sessions and providing keywords and title suggestions. Both Gemini 2.0 Flash and Llama 3.2 created three reasonable name options for all 21 sessions using all three prompt forms. In this case, reasonableness refers to generating a coherent phrase with proper title formatting based on ideas expressed in presentations within that proposed session. As an example, in the proposed livestock session mentioned previously, suggested titles included “livestock” or “animal health.” As hoped, the LLMs were able to find this new common aspect of this cluster of presentations and based title options around them.  However, title creation was not perfect. Considering the livestock session, the Gemini model with the full example prompt created the following three title options:4. AI-Powered Livestock Monitoring: Computer Vision for Enhanced Animal Welfare and Production5. Precision Livestock Management: Advancements in Automated Monitoring and Analysis6. Smart Animal Systems: Deep Learning and Robotics for Sustainable Livestock Farming  While they all correctly included “livestock,” the first suggestion also focuses on “computer vision.” Computer vision was an important aspect in almost all the presentations, but some presentations also incorporated other sensors or techniques like computational fluid dynamics as a key aspect. A title using “Computer Vision” would not properly encompass all the presentations as requested by the prompt. The models are very powerful in identifying common themes and creating options, but it is still necessary to include human organizers with experience as audience members to set the final title.  The LLMs were also capable of creating keywords. The proposed keywords were not always in every presentation in the proposed session, but common themes were identified (Table 2).Table 2. Keywords suggested by the models with each type of prompt for the proposed livestock sessionGemini 2.0 FlashLlama 3.2 7bComplete ExampleLivestock Monitoring,Computer Vision,Deep Learning,Animal Welfare,Precision AgricultureArtificial Intelligence,Internet of Things,Precision Agriculture,Livestock Monitoring,Animal Welfare,SustainabilityMinimal Exampledeep learning,computer vision,livestock monitoring,precision agriculture,animal welfaremulticamera systems,deep learning,computer vision,animal health management,precision livestock monitoring,behavior analysis,machine learning,data fusionNo Exampleanimal monitoring,computer vision,deep learning,livestock,precision agricultureLivestock monitoring,AI-driven camera systems,automated detection,health and welfare conditions,precision livestock monitoring,multi-camera systems,deep learning techniques    While these keywords all seem appropriate for this potential session, these lists also illustrate some current shortcomings with this approach. First, the Llama model did not respond with exactly five keywords even though that was the request. The Gemini model performs better in this regard. When considering the keywords produced for all sessions (Table 3), Gemini only failed to provide exactly five keywords in two instances. Table 3. Characteristics of keywords created by the LLMs.ModelGemini 2.0 FlashLlama 3.2 7bExampleFullMinimalNoneFullMinimalNoneCreated Keywords100%100%100%100%100%57%Exactly Five Keywords100%95%95%48%38%0%Capitalized a100%0%5%100%14%68%a Percent based on individual keywords that were produced by the prompt  These lists and the overall characteristics (Table 3) also illustrate the power of examples. The Llama model, which had trouble providing exactly five keywords, did better with more complete examples. The only time a model failed to provide keywords was when the Llama model did not have an example to follow. However, the examples had other impacts as well. The models also copied the styles embedded within the examples. The full example just happened to use capitalized keywords, and the models always responded with capitalized keywords when this prompt was used. They often did not use capitalized keywords otherwise. It is important to carefully select prompts and test them to ensure any unintended styles are not propagated throughout the results. On the other hand, with carefully designed examples with appropriate variety, this style mimicry can be used to concisely communicate correct title and keyword structures without explicitly listing every consideration.   More examples of style impact from examples are evident in the characteristics of the titles that the LLMs produced (Table 4). Just like the unintentional keyword capitalization (using title case), the full example titles all used a format with a main title and a subtitle separated by a colon. Llama followed this style more rigorously. With the Llama model, nearly all (94%) of titles produced with the Title: Subtitle examples used that format. The Gemini model followed this style less rigorously as it only used the format 67% of the time with the full example prompt. However, even without the Title: Subtitle form in the example (i.e. the Minimal and None prompts), it still produced titles in this form over 40% of the time. In contrast the Llama model only utilized this form 32% and 14% of the time when using these prompts. This illustrates that the models have style differences and differences in how they respond to certain prompts.Table 4. Characteristics of titles created by the LLMs.ModelGemini 2.0 FlashLlama 3.2 7bExampleFullMinimalNoneFullMinimalNoneTitle: Subtitle a67%46%43%94%32%14%"Advance..." b32%25%32%48%19%22%Topic 2.0 c0%0%0%13%0%0%Next-Generation d2%2%3%30%0%0%a Format was “Title: Subtitle” separated by a colonb Title uses any form of advance – Contains "dvanc"c Contains "2.0"d Contains "next" & "gen"  There were also other patterns in the titles that did not come from the examples. Both the Gemini and Llama models created many titles with some form of the word “advance” in the title. This could be “Advances,” “Advancement,” Advancing,” or “Advanced,” but it was a noticeable pattern that occurred in between 19% to 48% of the titles from any prompt. While many of these titles were good suggestions on their own, they would not be directly usable because the session titles would be too repetitious in a conference program. Another oddly frequent phrase was the use of “2.0” as in “Weed Control 2.0” or “Precision Agriculture 2.0” as part of the title. This 2.0 form only occurred with Llama and the full example model, but there it made up 13% of the suggestions. Finally, some form of “next generation” also appeared in many title options. For the Llama model, the example format in the prompt did significantly impact how frequently it used certain phrases even when those phrases were not in the examples. This did not occur with the Gemini model which had a more even distribution of the use of “advanced” and “next generation.” The response of the Llama model appears more dependent on structure and other non-semantic factors in the prompt. While not explored in this work, it may be possible to address these overly repetitive structures by providing the LLMs with a list of all proposed titles for refinement.Implications of LLM-based Naming and Keyword Generation  The automated generation of session names and keywords by LLMs offers significant benefits for conference organization. The proposed method enables rapid identification of the thematic focus of newly created sessions, which can be used by the overall conference organizers to assign appropriate session organizers to each session. These session organizers can begin their work with a foundation of several potential titles and keywords, streamlining the process of finalizing session details.  Our findings indicate that prompts incorporating more comprehensive output examples tended to yield superior results from the LLMs. However, this approach also had a drawback – namely the risk of inducing unexpected and undesirable stylistic mimicry. For this reason, utilizing prompts with minimal examples is likely the most appropriate strategy to mitigate excessive influence on the model's output. If more detailed examples are provided in prompts, it is crucial to ensure these examples reflect the full diversity of stylistic and grammatical variations acceptable for the conference.  Based on this study, LLMs do not currently appear capable of entirely replacing human organizers in the final selection of session names and keywords. Many of the LLM-generated titles exhibited a degree of repetitiveness unsuitable for a conference program. Additionally, the generated titles and keywords did not always accurately encapsulate the full thematic breadth of the papers within a given session. It may be possible to use secondary LLM-based processes to ensure titles comprehensively describe each session, further select and refine titles, and to consider the conference as a whole to mitigate repetitiveness. However, this would require further development and testing of such a process before it could be considered.   A potential challenge in implementing this LLM-assisted sorting and naming process is the risk of fostering over-reliance on the automated suggestions by human organizers. In this system, an organizer would be presented with a curated set of highly related presentations, three potential session titles, and a list of keywords. For time-constrained organizers, there might be a temptation to cursorily review the abstracts, remove presentations to meet session capacity, and then adopt the first suggested title and keyword set without thorough deliberation. While this expedited approach might represent an improvement over scenarios where over-committed organizers fail to complete their tasks, leaving sessions unorganized, it could also lead to superficial engagement with the session content. Therefore, clear communication with and among organizers will be essential, emphasizing that the LLM-generated titles and keywords are merely starting points and that the responsibility for critical review and final determination of session details remains with them.OVERALL DISCUSSION  This project demonstrates the potential of an automated system, leveraging text embedding and LLMs to significantly improve the organization of sessions for the ASABE AIM. The proposed method addresses persistent challenges with manual session creation, which has often resulted in disorganized sessions and frustration for both organizers and attendees. The automated approach provided notable improvements in creating a starting point for session organization and identifying emergent topic clusters overlooked by human organizers. When expanded across all ASABE technical communities, these unaddressed topics could include those that draw from multiple communities and address topics where committee interests overlap. Human organizers will still need to be involved in planning special sessions on specific topics, but general presentation sorting can be moved to this automated approach.   One extension of this work would be to apply it to session time slot assignment. It would be possible to use the similarities between various sessions to help ensure that highly related sessions are not scheduled at the same time. This is clearly an optimization task based on the General Assignment Problem and automated methods would be possible. However, session scheduling has other important considerations like room size constraints, expected topic popularity and attendee preferences that similar topics to be scheduled in nearby blocks of rooms. Rather than powering automated assignment, session to session similarities may be more useful to drive discussion points during the organizing meeting when time and room slot assignment are made.  Furthermore, the integration of LLMs proved effective in generating relevant session titles and keywords, offering a valuable starting point for session organizers. However, the study also highlighted current limitations of LLMs, including the tendency to produce repetitive title suggestions and the risk of unwanted stylistic mimicry based on prompt examples. These findings underscore that while LLMs are powerful tools for this application, they do not yet entirely replace the need for human judgment and refinement. Clear communication and guidelines will be essential to ensure that organizers use the AI-generated outputs as a foundation for their critical review and final decision-making.CONCLUSIONS  This research demonstrates that an automated approach utilizing text embedding models and Large Language Models (LLMs) can significantly enhance the organization of conference sessions. The methodology improved thematic coherence within sessions and successfully identified novel topic clusters previously unaddressed by manual methods. While LLMs proved useful for generating initial session titles and keywords, human oversight remains essential to refine these outputs and address limitations. This automated system presents a notable advancement over traditional organizational practices, offering a more efficient and effective starting point for human organizers, though careful implementation and continued human involvement are crucial for optimal results.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS   Thanks to ASABE Meetings Council for the feedback on this process and Jessica Bell for her organizational efforts that enable successful AIM Meetings.REFERENCESAarsen, T. (2025, March 25). SentenceTransformers Documentation — Sentence Transformers documentation. Retrieved May 6, 2025, from https://sbert.net/index.htmlAhn, S. (2024). The transformative impact of large language models on medical writing and publishing: current applications, challenges and future directions. The Korean Journal of Physiology & Pharmacology, 28(5), 393. https://doi.org/10.4196/kjpp.2024.28.5.393Andrei. (2025, May 13). llama-cpp-python. Python. Retrieved from https://github.com/abetlen/llama-cpp-python (Original work published March 23, 2023)Berry, M. D., Sessions, J. (2018a). A Forest-to-Product Biomass Supply Chain in the Pacific Northwest, USA: A Multi-Product Approach. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 34(1), 109–124. https://doi.org/10.13031/aea.12384Berry, M. D., Sessions, J. (2018b). The Economics of Biomass Logistics and Conversion Facility Mobility: An Oregon Case Study. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 34(1), 57–72. https://doi.org/10.13031/aea.12383Bochtis, D. D., Vougioukas, S. G. (2008). Minimising the non-working distance travelled by machines operating in a headland field pattern. Biosystems Engineering, 101(1), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2008.06.008Cao, R., Li, S., Ji, Y., Zhang, Z., Xu, H., Zhang, M., … Li, H. (2021). Task assignment of multiple agricultural machinery cooperation based on improved ant colony algorithm. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 182, 105993. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.105993Cattrysse, D. G., Van Wassenhove, L. N. (1992). A survey of algorithms for the generalized assignment problem. European Journal of Operational Research, 60(3), 260–272. https://doi.org/10.1016/0377-2217(92)90077-MCharlin, L., Zemel, R. (2013). The Toronto Paper Matching System: An automated paper-reviewer assignment system. In ICML 2013 Workshop on Peer Reviewing and Publishing Models. Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Retrieved from https://openreview.net/forum?id=caynafZAnBafxDevlin, J., Chang, M.-W., Lee, K., Toutanova, K. (2019, May 24). BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1810.04805Dvorak, J. (2025a, May 19). Automated Session Creation Visualization Tool - AIM 2025 (ITSC Only) · Streamlit. Retrieved May 19, 2025, from https://sessioncreation-aim2025-itsc.streamlit.app/Dvorak, J. (2025b, May 19). joedvorak/Session-Creation-AIM-2025-ITSC. Python. Retrieved from https://github.com/joedvorak/Session-Creation-AIM-2025-ITSC/tree/mainDvorak, J. (2025c). AI Tools and Text Embedding for Session Organization at ASABE's Annual International Meeting. Journal of the ASABE. 68(6), https://doi.org/10.13031/ja.16328 Eckhardt, R., Arablouei, R., Ingham, A., McCosker, K., Bernhardt, H. (2025). Livestock behaviour forecasting via generative artificial intelligence. Smart Agricultural Technology, 11, 100987. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2025.100987Eckhardt, R., Arablouei, R., McCosker, K., Bernhardt, H. (2024). Modeling Climate Change Impacts on Cattle Behavior Using Generative Artificial Intelligence: A Pathway to Adaptive Livestock Management. In 2024 Anaheim, California July 28-31, 2024. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202400377Grootendorst, M. (2022, March 11). BERTopic: Neural topic modeling with a class-based TF-IDF procedure. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.05794Hameed, I. A., Bochtis, D. D., Sorensen, C. G. (2011). Driving Angle and Track Sequence Optimization for Operational Path Planning Using Genetic Algorithms. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 27(6), 1077–1086. https://doi.org/10.13031/2013.40615Hugging Quants. (2024, September 26). hugging-quants/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct-Q8_0-GGUF · Hugging Face. Retrieved May 13, 2025, from https://huggingface.co/hugging-quants/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct-Q8_0-GGUFJin, J., Tang, L. (2010). Optimal coverage path planning for arable farming on 2D surfaces. Transactions of the ASABE, 53(1), 283–295.Ju, C., Kim, J., Seol, J., Son, H. I. (2022). A review on multirobot systems in agriculture. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 202, 107336. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107336Lee, C., Roy, R., Xu, M., Raiman, J., Shoeybi, M., Catanzaro, B., Ping, W. (2025, February 25). NV-Embed: Improved Techniques for Training LLMs as Generalist Embedding Models. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.17428Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., … Kiela, D. (2020). Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (Vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474). Vancouver, Canada: Curran Associates, Inc. Retrieved from https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/hash/6b493230205f780e1bc26945df7481e5-Abstract.htmlLuo, Y., Li, Y., Ogunyemi, O., Koski, E., Himes, B. E. (2025). Leveraging large language models for academic conference organization. NPJ Digital Medicine, 8, 101. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-025-01492-7Manman, Z., Wu, Z., Benben, M., Jinlei, F., Yuan, R., Xiu, J. (2021). Optimized Layout of Tea Plantation Sensors Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization. Applied Engineering in Agriculture, 37(3), 547–554. https://doi.org/10.13031/aea.13871Mello, A. V., Schardong, A., Pedrotti, A. (2013). Multi-Objective Analysis Applied to an Irrigated Agricultural System on Oxisols. Transactions of the ASABE, 56(1), 71–82. https://doi.org/10.13031/2013.42591Meltebrink, C., Strotdresch, M., Wegmann, B., Weltzien, C., Ruckelshausen, A. (2022). Humanoid test target for the validation of sensor systems on autonomous agricultural machines. Agricultural Engineering.Eu, 77(3). https://doi.org/10.15150/lt.2022.3282Mikolov, T., Sutskever, I., Chen, K., Corrado, G., Dean, J. (2013, October 16). Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their Compositionality. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1310.4546Muller, J. M., Petti, D. J., Li, C., Gorucu, S., Pilz, M., Weichelt, B. (2024). Investigating the Use of Large Language Models in Agricultural Injury Surveillance. In 2024 Anaheim, California July 28-31, 2024. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202400572Nussbaum, Z., Duderstadt, B. (2025, March 9). Training Sparse Mixture Of Experts Text Embedding Models. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.07972OpenReview. (2025). About OpenReview. Retrieved December 5, 2025, from https://openreview.net/aboutPandey, P., Dakshinamurthy, H. N., Young, S. N. (2021). Frontier: Autonomy in Detection, Actuation, and Planning for Robotic Weeding Systems. Transactions of the ASABE, 64(2), 557–563. https://doi.org/10.13031/trans.14085Pennington, J., Socher, R., Manning, C. (2014). GloVe: Global Vectors for Word Representation. In A. Moschitti, B. Pang, & W. Daelemans (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) (pp. 1532–1543). Doha, Qatar: Association for Computational Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.3115/v1/D14-1162Petukhova, A., Matos-Carvalho, J. P., Fachada, N. (2025). Text Clustering with Large Language Model Embeddings. International Journal of Cognitive Computing in Engineering, 6, 100–108. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcce.2024.11.004Ramos, J. (2003). Using tf-idf to determine word relevance in document queries (Vol. 242, pp. 29–48). Presented at the Proceedings of the first instructional conference on machine learning, Citeseer.Reimers, N., Gurevych, I. (2019, August 27). Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1908.10084Ross, G. T., Soland, R. M. (1975). A branch and bound algorithm for the generalized assignment problem. Mathematical Programming, 8(1), 91–103. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01580430Scikit-learn: AgglomerativeClustering. (2025). Retrieved May 6, 2025, from https://scikit-learn/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.AgglomerativeClustering.htmlSeyyedhasani, H., Dvorak, J. S. (2017). Using the Vehicle Routing Problem to reduce field completion times with multiple machines. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 134, 142–150. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2016.11.010Shutske, J. M. (2023). Editorial: Harnessing the Power of Large Language Models in Agricultural Safety & Health. Journal of Agricultural Safety and Health, 29(4), 205–224. https://doi.org/10.13031/jash.15841Shutske, J. M., Issa, S. F., Johnson, T., Khorsandi, F., Pate, M. L., Gorucu, S., … Versweyveld, J. (2025). SAFER AG – Risk Assessment, Data, Design Standards, and Regulation: Needs and Recommendations. Journal of Agricultural Safety and Health, 31(1), 1–13. https://doi.org/10.13031/jash.15855Soergel, D., Saunders, A., McCallum, A. (2013). Open Scholarship and Peer Review: a Time for Experimentation. In Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Machine Learning (Vol. 28). Atlanta, Georgia, USA: JMLR: W & CP. Retrieved from https://openreview.net/forum?id=xf0zSBd2iufMgSteinbach, M., Karypis, G., Kumar, V. (2000). A Comparison of Document Clustering Techniques. In Workshop on Text Mining. Boston, MA: ACM. Retrieved from https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dunja/WshKDD2000.htmlStephen, S., Ruffin, D., Palmer, X., Potter, L. (2024). Securing Agricultural Systems Against the Threat of Misinformation. Journal of the ASABE, 67(6), 1595–1605. https://doi.org/10.13031/ja.15979Templeton, A., Conerly, T., Marcus, J., Lindsey, J., Bricken, T., Chen, B., … Jones, A. (2024). Scaling Monosemanticity: extracting interpretable features from Claude 3 sonnet. Transformer Circuits Thread. Retrieved from https://transformer-circuits.pub/2024/scaling-monosemanticity/index.htmlThe SciPy community. (2025). linkage — SciPy v1.15.3 Manual. Retrieved May 12, 2025, from https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.cluster.hierarchy.linkage.htmlVaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., … Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is All you Need. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (Vol. 30). Curran Associates, Inc. Retrieved from https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.htmlZhang, H., Yu, P. S., Zhang, J. (2025). A Systematic Survey of Text Summarization: From Statistical Methods to Large Language Models. ACM Comput. Surv. https://doi.org/10.1145/3731445		2		      ASABE Journal Template January 2023			1              		1      