AI TOOLS AND TEXT EMBEDDING FOR SESSION ORGANIZATION AT ASABE'S ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL MEETINGHIGHLIGHTS* Text embedding models enable automated determination of the similarity between presentations and sessions.* Procedures to use metrics based on similarity scores to identify focused and unfocused sessions and outlier presentations are provided.* Model clustering ability is more critical for this application than the maximum length of input text.ABSTRACT. Four text embedding models (nomic-embed-text-v1.5, cde-small-v1, all-mpnet-base-v2, and all-MiniLM-L6-v2) were used to create dense vector representations of the topics of the titles and abstracts of all 810 oral presentations that were given at the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers’ 2024 Annual International Meeting. Similarities between all these presentations were then calculated through cosine similarity. Metrics for characterizing presentations and their relationship to their assigned session were created: Presentation Session Fit, Presentation Raw Deviation, and Presentation Standardized Deviation. To describe the level of similarity within a session, session metrics were established: Session Coherence and Session Standard Deviation. Examples of using these metrics to identify very focused sessions as well as unfocused sessions are provided. Outlier presentations are identified using the Presentation Standardized Deviation and potentially more suitable sessions for the presentation are identified using similarity scores. A final metric, Session-Session Similarity identifies the similarity in topics between different sessions, which can assist in scheduling to ensure highly related sessions are not scheduled at the same time. The outputs of the four different models were compared through Pearson correlations of the similarity scores, which ranged between 0.79 and 0.88. Since the models differed on the maximum quantity of input text and thus the length of the abstracts that they could process, all models were again tested with inputs truncated to the first 256 tokens. These input limits only had slight impacts on outputs with Pearson correlations above 0.96 between truncated and non-truncated tests of the same model. The differences in clustering quality as measured by model benchmark scores were more impactful than the length of the abstract that the model could process. Based on these results, efforts will continue with the more powerful embedding models and a web app has been built that will enable session organizers to consider similarity metrics as they organize AIM 2025.  Keywords. Text Embedding, Session Organization, ASABE Annual International Meeting, Artificial Intelligence, Similarity Metrics, Natural Language Processing.  Properly sorting oral research presentations into sessions (session organization) has been a major challenge and source of attendee discontent at ASABE’s Annual International Meeting (AIM) for many years. While there has been considerable effort to improve the process, it is difficult to accurately assess and classify the over 800 oral presentations that are given at a normal ASABE AIM. The current process starts with technical committees trying to guess the best possible session titles for the next AIM. These guesses create the initial set of session names. Overall, about 100 sessions are created, and session organizers are appointed for each one. About six months before the conference, presenters submit their presentation to one of the proposed sessions. Some sessions end up with very few submissions and others end up with inundated with submissions. Unfortunately, many of the submitted presentations are only marginally related to the original idea for the session topic that was proposed at the previous AIM. Over the next several months, session organizers, technical community program chairs and conference program chairs reorganize and refine the sessions by swapping presentations and merging and subdividing sessions to attempt to create coherent groupings.   With over 800 oral presentations, it is not possible for one person to read every presentation abstract to identify themes and sort presentations even if this person could somehow be up to date with all the active research in every area of agricultural and biological engineering. Despite the best efforts of a large team of volunteers, the fragmented nature of the process makes this difficult. Each session organizer oversees a topic based on the session name they originally proposed. Unfortunately, many presentations are left stranded in sessions that are not good fits because the session organizers were unaware that other relevant presentations were submitted to other sessions. Additionally, much of the research at AIM is cross-disciplinary, and it is not immediately clear which session organizer should be placing the presentation. Over the past ten years, the ASABE Meetings Council has tried a variety of methods to share and organize the presentations to help session, community and program organizers better visualize and sort the presentations. There was even an ill-fated attempt to use keywords and automated sorting. Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have finally provided tools that could be very useful in assisting session organizers with their task.NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING AND GENERATIVE AI  Generative AI enabled by LLMs represents a significant advancement in AI. Coming out of the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP), Large Language Models (LLMs) are neural networks that map concepts at a deeper level than earlier predictive AI models (Templeton et al., 2024). They are trained on vast amounts of text data using self-supervised learning techniques – primarily next-token prediction. This training process allows LLMs to understand context, write coherent text passages (Ahn, 2024), and perhaps most surprisingly, perform complex reasoning (Sprague et al., 2024).  Current LLMs use the transformer architecture developed by Vaswani et al. (2017) which relies on the attention mechanism for modifying model weights rather than using convolution or recurrent neural networks. Early LLMs utilized a string-based interface where the model received a text string and then returned a string as an output (LangChain, 2024c). However, LLMs and the tools that utilize them to create various applications are all rapidly developing. At the time of writing, the current chat model interface generally consists of an array of messages which are called the prompt (LangChain, 2024a). Designing this prompt is prompt engineering – not to be confused with questions typed into a website text box. Each message within the prompt can include roles and instructions in addition to the message itself which helps the model determine how to interpret the input (OpenAI, 2024b). Various instructions and even memories of previous actions can be embedded into the prompt.   This ability to augment the prompt has also enabled techniques like Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) which adds limited segments retrieved from a designated datastore to the prompt. The basic three step RAG process was introduced by Lewis et al. (2020). In Retrieval, the initial query is assessed and documents similar to the query are identified in the knowledge base. The newly retrieved information is then used to Augment the original prompt, and the new combined prompt is passed to the LLM to provide context to Generate the response (LangChain, 2024b). This process has proven useful by allowing the LLM to ground answers using specific, reliable information. It also ensures answers are based on up to date information (Google, 2024; Lewis et al., 2020; F. Wang et al., 2024).  Various methods can be used to identify relevant information for RAG (Amazon Web Services, 2024; Google, 2024), but the initial and still most common approach is to compare a dense vector representation of the query with a dense vector representation of the information segments in the knowledge store (Lewis et al., 2020). These dense vector representations are created using embedding language models. Like generative LLMs, embedding models are neural networks trained on a large corpus of text. However, the output from these models is a dense vector that captures the semantic meaning of the text in that document (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). Similarities between the information segments and the query are then determined by comparing the dense vector representations – frequently using cosine similarity (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). These powerful text embedding models can also be used for other text tasks like clustering or reranking in addition to identifying matches between queries and information documents (Muennighoff et al., 2023). These additional applications of embedding models were utilized in this project to identify similarities between research presentations.  With the rapid advancement of LLM based techniques, a critical issue is how to evaluate the model’s performance for the task at hand. This had led to a rapid development from test datasets (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) to more formalized testing procedures and leaderboard rankings (Devlin et al., 2019; Thakur et al., 2021; A. Wang et al., 2020). One popular assessment for embedding models is the Massive Test Embedding Benchmark (MTEB) hosted by Hugging Face (MTEB, 2025a; Muennighoff et al., 2023). It has recently been updated with expanded metrics and multilingual support (Enevoldsen et al., 2025). The MTEB is especially useful in this context as it allows filtering for open models, filtering based on model size (which reflects memory and computational requirements), or performance on specific tasks.ORGANIZING SCIENTIFIC TEXT WITH NLP  NLP approaches have long attempted to improve various aspects of scientific literature management. Some early applications focused on matching reviewers with manuscripts for conferences, journal publications and research proposal review (Charlin and Zemel, 2013; Mimno and McCallum, 2007). These early efforts used lexical approaches like Term Frequency – Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) or related keyword approaches (Hettich and Pazzani, 2006; Karimzadehgan et al., 2008). These found some success – often in disciplines where use of certain specific, unique and consistent terms provided a strong signal for topic matching (Price and Flach, 2017). However, other researchers found significant improvements when moving from lexical to semantic approaches that attempted to capture and compare the underlying meaning of documents rather than comparing the use of certain words (Achakulvisut et al., 2016; B. Li and Hou, 2016). The Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) model revolutionized sematic understanding of text (Devlin et al., 2019) and created more robust methods of topic matching. The SPECTER and SPECTER2 (Scientific Paper Embeddings using Citation-informed TransformERs) models were built on top of BERT but incorporate citation links to determine relationships between research publications (Cohan et al., 2020; Singh et al., 2022). As an example application, the OpenReview platform for conference reviewer assignment and organization now suggests using SPECTER-based approaches (OpenReview, 2024), although their initial reviewer matching tools were developed for TF-IDF algorithms (OpenReview, August 2, 2018/2025).   At the same time SPECTER was developed for special applications, the research labs at companies like Google and OpenAI that developing the very largest foundational generative LLMs have also pushed the state of the art in general purpose embedding models with abilities rapidly advancing beyond BERT (Lee et al., 2025; OpenAI, 2024a). Researchers organizing the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) 2024 Informatics Summit found success using OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 model to analyze similarity among presentations for grouping them into sessions (Luo et al., 2025), which parallels ASABE’s challenge with session organization for AIM. OpenAI’s text embedding models are only available through their API and can be deprecated at any time. However, smaller, open models capable of running on local PC hardware are now available and can beat OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 performance on benchmarks (MTEB, 2025a). With high performance and open availability, these tools could finally provide a method for analyzing ASABE research that will be available to conference organizers over the long term. However, it is critical to test this approach as other conferences found success with keyword-based approaches that did not work for AIM. It remains a critical issue to determine if these models will prove capable with AIM’s complex and overlapping topics.GENERATIVE AI AND NLP APPLICATIONS IN AGRICULTURE  This project is not alone in applying the recent advancements in generative AI and NLP to agricultural applications. Agriculture researchers have rapidly begun considering potential uses of this quickly advancing technology. One proposal is to use LLMs to automatically classify agricultural injury reports to implement targeted interventions at more local scales (Muller et al., 2024). Other have identified many potential applications in outreach and communication of best practices for safe agricultural work (Shutske, 2023; Shutske et al., 2025). While these tools are undeniably helpful in some applications, their use can also present challenges – such as when used in disinformation campaigns that negatively impact agricultural operations (Stephen et al., 2024) or to circumvent grading procedures in university biosystems engineering courses (Moore and Sadler, 2023). Others have looked beyond basic text generation and used generative AI to create a foundation model for understanding orchard fruit (J. Li et al., 2024). This powerful model can identify and select fruit in images based on requirements provided through natural language prompts. In another project that extends generative AI beyond text generation, Eckhardt et al. (2024) used generative AI to create synthetic data to simulate the response of cattle to different climate change scenarios. While LLMs were not developed with agriculture-specific applications in mind, these powerful, general purpose tools are proving adept at working with complex agricultural and biological systems. With this project, we investigate the ability for open text embedding tools to properly determine the semantic meaning of research in a wide variety of agricultural and biological engineering topics.   An obvious application of presentation similarity scores is to automatically create clusters of presentations to serve as sessions as discussed by Luo et al. (2025). However, before that, it is necessary to identify which models, if any, can provide similarity scores correctly for ASABE research abstracts as earlier NLP tools appeared ineffective for this task. It is also necessary to demonstrate how to take individual similarity scores and build metrics that prove valuable in assessing overall session organization as these will form the targets for any optimization functions. Finally, complete automation does not have to be an end goal of this project. In preparation for AIM 2025, there were many last-minute shifts to session schedules that required quickly identifying presentations that could be moved into sessions to make up for travel cancellations. A quick similarity search on presentations can help with this effort. Additionally, similarities between sessions could be used to ensure many highly related sessions are not scheduled for the same time block. It is difficult to judge these factors while looking at over 1000 different presentations or 100 different sessions. Even with completely human curated sessions, effective similarity scores from these models and metrics to evaluate presentations and sessions will be very valuable.OBJECTIVES  The specific objectives of this study are to:* Use text embeddings from generative AI systems to determine semantic similarity between presentations.* Use similarity scores to analyze traditional human organized sessions* Present metrics and procedures to use these metrics to identify:o sessions with high similarity/coherence, o sessions with low similarity/coherence, and o outlier presentations.* Determine the characteristics of text embedding models that work well for session organization.MATERIALS AND METHODSUSING TEXT EMBEDDINGS TO CALCULATE SIMILARITY  The source of data for this project was the main presentation planning spreadsheet used for organizing presentations at ASABE’s 2024 Annual International Meeting. This spreadsheet included 810 oral presentations that had been organized into normal oral sessions. This total does not include posters, invited speakers or panel discussions. The 810 oral presentations were all normal presentations that were submitted in response to the Call for Papers. They included standard (12 minute) and lightning (5 minute) oral presentations. These presentations could have been placed in traditional or lightning sessions or hybrid sessions where they were combined with invited speakers or panel discussions.   This data source included the following information for each presentation:* Title* Abstract* Session* Presenter Last Name* Presenter First Name* Abstract ID* Technical Community  This data was the final organizing spreadsheet after the conference. Therefore, the Session field reflects the session within which the presentation was given at the conference after all organizing changes had been made. The Technical Community is the technical community which sponsored and organized the Session. The Title and Abstract are the versions that were submitted in the original Call for Papers. These are the versions that were used to create and organize the sessions originally. Some authors edited their titles shortly before the conference, but this project focused on the work of the conference organizers, so the versions available to them during conference organization were used. All this data except for the abstracts and non-edited titles were eventually published in the conference technical program and is publicly available.  All processing was conducted in a Python Jupyter notebook using Python 3.12.4. Before processing, the Title and Abstract fields were combined into a single line of text in the form “Title: Abstract…”, with a colon and a space in between the two pieces of text. This provided a single text string that contained all the topic information about the presentation. As part of this project, four different text embedding models were evaluated: nomic-embed-text-v1.5 (Nussbaum et al., 2024), cde-small-v1 (Morris and Rush, 2024), all-mpnet-base-v2 (Sentence Transformers, 2024b), and all-MiniLM-L6-v2 (Sentence Transformers, 2024a) (Table 1). All of these models are open and were downloaded from the Hugging Face repository using the sentence-transformers 3.3.1 library (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). The nomic-embed-text-v1.5 model advised running the embedding process using a separate library, nomic. This advice was followed, and the nomic-embed-text-v1.5 embeddings were all performed with the suggested functions within the nomic 3.3.4 library. This process was run in local mode to ensure all calculations were done on the local machine. Pandas 2.2.3 was used for managing dataframes. All other models used the sentence-transformers functions to calculate the embeddings and similarities. This notebook displaying all processing steps is available in a Github repository (Dvorak, January 3, 2025/2025). The source data without abstracts is available in this repository. Processed data including the embeddings for all presentations is also available in the repository. While the embedding process cannot be recreated without the abstracts, it is possible to recreate the similarity analysis using the already computed embeddings.Table 1. Specifications of the text embedding models used in this study.Modelnomic-embed-text-v1.5cde-small-v1all-mpnet-base-v2all-MiniLM-L6-v2Max Input Token Length8192512384 [a]256[a]Model Size (Parameters)137 M281 M110 M23 MEmbedding Dimensions768768768384Release Date [b]Feb 10, 2024Sep 24, 2024Aug 30, 2021Aug 30, 2021MTEB Leaderboard Clustering Average Score43.9348.3243.6941.94[a] The Hugging Face Model Card reports 512, but the internal tokenizer truncates input above this number of tokens.[b] Date of initial commit of model to Hugging Face repository  The models vary in several parameters. The all-MiniLM-L6-v2 and the all-mpnet-base-v2 are early sentence transformer models released by the Sentence Transformer team and maintained by Hugging Face itself. The early all-mpnet-base-v2 model was developed with a focus on higher quality. While recently updated with expanded metrics and multilingual support (Enevoldsen et al., 2025), the values shown in Table 1 are from the legacy leaderboard (MTEB, 2025b) as not all of these older models have been tested on the expanded evaluation set at the time of writing. The all-MiniLM-L6-v2 was designed to run at least 5 times faster with only a slight loss in quality (SBERT.net, 2024). The nomic-embed-text-v1.5 and cde-small-v1 are more recent models that focus on providing larger input token lengths and quality. They both require considerably more processing power/time. The cde-small-v1 model has the highest MTEB clustering score. The nomic-embed-text-v1.5 and all-mpnet-base-v2 models had similar clustering scores, and all-MiniLM-L6-v2 had the lowest score.METRICS TO EVALUATE SESSIONS AND PRESENTATION PLACEMENT  The output from the models is an embedding vector of the length given in Table 1. All these models have been trained so that topic similarity is determined by cosine similarity between the embedding vectors. Cosine similarities vary from 0 to 1.0 with 1.0 indicating an perfect topic match. While a single similarity value is useful for direct comparisons, additional metrics are necessary when considering presentation placement within a session. These metrics can be divided into presentation metrics, which describe a presentation’s fit with its assigned session, and session metrics, which describe overall fit between all presentations in a given session.  Presentation Session Fit: This presentation metric is the average cosine similarity between a presentation and all others in its assigned session. It measures how similar a presentation is to others in its session. It does not include a presentation's similarity with itself, which is always 1.0.  It is calculated as:  	PSF(p_i )=1/(|s_j |-1) ∑_?(p_k?s_j@p_k≠p_i )?sim(p_i, p_k ) 	(1)where:  PSF(p_i ) = the Presentation Session Fit for presentation p_i,  s_j = the session where presentation p_i is assigned,  |s_j | = the number of presentations in session s_j,  p_k? = a presentation in session s_j other than p_i?, and  sim(p_i, p_k ) = the cosine similarity between presentation p_i? ? and presentation p_k??.  Session Coherence: This session metric is the average cosine similarity between all presentations assigned to the same session. It is an overall indicator of how well a session focuses on one topic.  It is calculated as:  	SC(s_j )=1/|s_j |(|s_j |-1)  ∑_?(p_i?s_j@?(p_k?s_j@p_i≠p_k ))?sim(p_i, p_k ) 	(2)where:  SC(s_j ) = the Session Coherence for session s_j?,  ∑_?(p_i?s_j@?(p_k?s_j@p_k≠p_i ))?sim(p_i, p_k ) ??? = the sum the cosine similarities over all pairs of distinct presentations (p_i, p_k ) within the session s_j?, ignoring self-similarity, hence p_i≠p_k?, and  |s_j |(|s_j |-1) = number of all possible pairs of presentations (p_i, p_k ) within the session s_j?.  Session Standard Deviation: This session metric is the standard deviation of the Presentation Session Fit scores of the presentations assigned to that session. It measures the variation in these scores. Session Coherence is a better measure of focus, but this metric can be used to identify sessions with outlier presentations.  It is calculated as:  	SSD(s_j )= √(1/(|s_j |-1) ∑_(p_i?s_j)?(PSF(p_i )-¯(PSF(s_j ) ))^2 )	(3)where:  SSD(s_j ) = the Session Standard Deviation for session s_j?, and  ¯(PSF(s_j ) ) = the average Presentation Session Fit for all presentations in session s_j?.  Presentation Raw Deviation: This presentation metric is the difference between a presentation's Presentation Session Fit and its session's Session Coherence. A direct measure of the difference in similarity of a presentation and its session.  It is calculated as:  	RD(p_i )=PSF(p_i )-SC(s_j)	(4)where:  RD(p_i ) = the Raw Deviation for presentation p_i?.  Presentation Standardized Deviation: This presentation metric is the Raw Deviation of the presentation divided by the Session Standard Deviation of the session to which it is assigned. This standardizes the similarity difference based on the variability in a session. This is analogous to a z-score. It is most useful for identifying single presentations that stand out from an otherwise very focused session.  It is calculated as:  	SD(p_i )=RD(p_i )/SSD(s_j ) 	(5)where:  SD(p_i ) = the Standardized Deviation for presentation p_i?.  Session-Session Similarity: This session to session metric is the average similarity between all presentations in one session with all those in another session. It indicates how similar the topic of one session is to the topic of another session.  It is calculated as:   	SSS(s_j,s_m )=1/(|s_j |?|s_m | ) ∑_(p_i?s_j)?∑_(p_k?s_m)?sim(p_i, p_k ) 	(6)where:  SSS(s_j,s_m )  = the Session-Session Similarity between session s_j,? and session s_m,  |s_j | = the number of presentations in s_j,?   |s_m | = the number of presentations in s_m,? and  ∑_(p_i?s_j)?∑_(p_k?s_m)?sim(p_i, p_k )  = the sum of the cosine similarities over all pairs of presentations, where p_i? belongs to session s_j? and p_k? belongs to session s_m?.COMPARING EMBEDDING MODELS  Each of these four models were used to create embedding vectors and to calculate similarities between all the oral presentations. These similarity scores between all individual presentations were then used to calculate all the presentation and session metrics previously described. Finally ranked lists for presentations and sessions based on these similarity metrics were created. The results from each text embedding model were processed independently. Models and Input Token Length  While the MTEB Cluster score measures a model’s ability to create embeddings for identifying and clustering similar types of text, input token length plays a critical role in this application. Text longer than the maximum input length is truncated and ignored. Placing presentations into sessions is based on both the title and the work that is described in the presentation’s abstract. Therefore, the model should ideally be able to process both the title and the entire abstract.  The maximum input length is given in tokens, and each model includes a tokenizer that converts text input into tokens prior to processing by the model itself. While the tokenizer is a part of the model, the tokenizers within these models all processed text in the same manner. Running these models with the Sentences Transformer library, it was possible to run the tokenizer process and check the output tokens. With all these tokenizers, all the titles and abstracts were converted into tokens of the same length. The number of tokens is roughly based on the number of words with some differences. For example, the 11 word presentation title, “Utilizing super capacitors to improve battery performance in electric mobile machinery” becomes the 13 token string, “utilizing super cap ##ac ##itors to improve battery performance in electric mobile machinery”. If placement of presentations into sessions was based on title alone, any of the models would be acceptable as the longest title was less than 40 tokens long (Figure 1). Including the abstracts increases the input token lengths substantially (Figure 2).   Figure 1. The token lengths of the title of presentations at ASABE AIM 2024 created using the tokenizer in the embedding models.  Figure 2. The token lengths of the title and abstract of presentations at ASABE AIM 2024 created using the tokenizer in the embedding models.  Any of these models could process the titles since the longest title was less than 40 tokens and the shortest maximum input was 256 tokens. However, the median length of a title and abstract was 379.5 tokens. The basic all-MiniLM-L6-v2, with its 256 token input limit, could fully process only the shortest of presentation submissions. The all-mpnet-base-v2 model, with its 384 token input limit, could fully process a little more than half the presentations. Seventy-five percent of titles and abstracts were less than 473 tokens, which cde-small-v1 could handle with its 512 token input. However, only nomic-embed-text-v1.5 with its 8192 token maximum could handle the very longest presentations with the maximum title and abstract length at 1010 tokens.   Since only the nomic-embed-text-v1.5 model could fully process all of the titles and abstracts, the results from this model are used in illustrating the general capabilities of embedding-based similarities.  After describing general capabilities, the results from the four different models are compared. Additionally, to investigate the importance of being able to process longer input strings, the models were all tested with inputs that were identically truncated to 256 tokens to match the maximum input length of the small all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model. This meant that the processing steps for calculating presentation and session similarity metrics were all repeated eight times (four models, with full and truncated inputs). The primary method of model comparison was to consider the Pearson correlation of the similarities between all the presentations as estimated by each model. The raw similarity values were not directly equivalent across models, so a direct difference in similarity values was not possible. Using the Pearson correlation, it is possible to focus on the relative magnitudes of similarity which should be the same between models if they accurately capture the true similarity between presentation topics.RESULTS SIMILARITYOverall Similarity  All presentations given at ASABE AIM are scientific research presentations in some area of biological or agricultural engineering. Therefore, there is a relatively high level of similarity between them. When considering the cosine similarity between each presentation with all others, a distinct bell curve appears (Figure 3). With the cde-small-v1 embeddings, the average overall similarity value is 0.48. There are some highly related presentations. The highest similarity score is 0.93. Only 1.24% of scores are above 0.70. This is a useful benchmark as some sessions have session coherence values (average similarity between all assigned presentations) above this 0.70 level. To do so, they must primarily include presentations whose relationships are within this top 1.24%. The least similar presentations have a similarity score of 0.17. The average overall similarity of 0.48 is a useful benchmark as the average similarity between any two presentations during AIM 2024. As presentations are assigned to sessions, they should be grouped with presentations with which they are most similar. Therefore, similarity within sessions should be higher than the overall average.   Figure 3. Histogram of cosine similarities for all oral presentations at the ASABE AIM 2024 based on embeddings from the cde-small-v1 model.Presentation Session Fit  When comparing the similarity scores of presentations with others in their assigned session (presentation session fit), 97% of similarity scores are indeed above the general average of 0.48 (Figure 4). The average presentation session fit is 0.61. While most presentations are matched with other presentations with which they are most similar, there is still a distribution of presentation-session similarities from a minimum of 0.40 to a maximum of 0.77.  Figure 4. Histogram of presentation session fit (average cosine similarity between a presentation and all others assigned to the same oral session) during the ASABE AIM 2024 based on embeddings from the cde-small-v1 model.Session Coherence  Similarity values can also be used to assess the overall coherence of an entire session by considering the average presentation session fit. The mean session coherence was 0.61, and once again, there was a distribution of similarity scores (Figure 5). Four sessions had session similarity scores above 0.7. Since only 1.24% of presentations were this similar, this indicates that these four sessions must include many of these most highly similar presentations. On the other hand, one session had a session coherence of 0.48 which was the same as the average similarity between all the presentations. This session approximates the similarity of a random selection of presentations from the overall conference schedule instead of carefully curated grouping of related presentations.   Figure 5. Histogram of session coherence within each session during the ASABE AIM 2024 based on embeddings from the cde-small-v1 model.COMPARING SESSIONSMost and least coherent sessions  To determine the ability of embedding-based similarity scores to assess session coherence, it is necessary to move beyond the trends and compare specific sessions. Table 2 displays the top 5 and bottom 5 most coherent sessions from AIM 2024 based on session coherence scores. The highest session coherence came from session 330. There were only two normal presentations in this session with the rest of the session consisting of invited presentations. This analysis only considers the normal oral presentations and the two normal presentations that were selected for this session were very highly related to each other, so it is unsurprising this this session had the highest coherence score. The standard sessions on this list had eight or nine presentations each. One lightning talk with ten presentations even made the list of most coherent sessions. Table 2. Based on similarity scores, the five most coherent and five least coherent sessions at ASABE AIM 2024.SessionSession Coherence330 Monitoring Standards: Applications, Methods and Technologies-HYBRID[a]0.731235 Recent Developments in Crop Protection Product and Fertilizer Unmanned Applications0.722242 Understanding the Agro-Hydrologic Effects of Regenerative Agricultural Practices0.710125 Exploring Safety in the Era of Autonomous Agriculture-HYBRID0.708129 AI-Driven Tools and Technologies for High Throughput Phenotyping-LIGHTNING TALKS0.691……118 Agri-Industrial Facility Design and Operation0.498122 Physical and Chemical Properties of Food, Agricultural, and Biological Materials0.497228 Analytical, Computational and Instrumentation Advances for Biosensing0.497334 Food Safety Engineering0.495318 Food Process Engineering0.477[a] Only 2 presentations  The standard session with the highest session coherent was session 235, “Recent Developments in Crop Protection Product and Fertilizer Unmanned Applications.” All eight of the presentations in this session are focused on unmanned sprayer technologies (Table 3). While highly related, each presentation looks at different aspects of this technology. Interestingly, even in this very related session, the presentation similarity fit scores still highlight differences. Table 3 is sorted by session similarity and the top several presentations heavily focus on spray pattern/deposition, and this is followed by several presentations on other aspects of unmanned sprayer technology. At first glance, the presentation, “Design and Development of spraying system for under canopy rover and its integration with computer vision system,” may seem ill placed by the similarity score as it is about an unmanned ground vehicle whereas all the other presentations are about unmanned aerial vehicles. However, its abstract explicitly discusses assessing coverage area and penetration of various nozzle configurations on this unmanned ground vehicle. As the text embedding fully considered the title and abstract, the embeddings and resulting similarity scores identified the similarity between methods, experiments and outcomes in these presentations with the highest similarity scores. Table 3. The oral session from AIM 2024 with more than two presentations with the highest session similarity.Session: 235 Recent Developments in Crop Protection Product and Fertilizer Unmanned ApplicationsSession Coherence: 0.722PresentationPresentation Session FitSpray Deposition and In-Swath Uniformity of Unmanned Aerial Application Systems (UAAS) equipped with Rotary Atomizers at Varying Operational Parameters0.762Assessment of Spray Patterns and Efficiency of an Unmanned Sprayer Used in Planar Growing Systems0.760Design and Development of spraying system for under canopy rover and its integration with computer vision system 0.742UAS Sprayer Pattern Evaluation Under Different Operational Parameters 0.740An update on developing a prototype of intelligent unmanned aerial application system 0.729Rate and Uniformity Assessment of Dry Material Applications with Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS)0.705Determination of canopy characteristics of ornamental trees with drone technology for precision spraying using an unsupervised segmentation approach0.686Performance Evaluation of a Solar Energy Operated Unmanned Liquid Chemical Applicator0.649  The session with the lowest session coherence score was session 318, “Food Process Engineering.” These eight presentations do not have a clear theme (Table 4). Many focus on processing steps for agricultural products that are often used in food production, but others focus on a sensor, machinery design or even seed germination impacts. Table 4. The oral session from AIM 2024 with the lowest session similarity.Session: 318 Food Process EngineeringSession Coherence: 0.48PresentationPresentation Session FitDensity Gradient Centrifugation for the Isolation of High-Purity Fractions from Pulse Grains0.524Mathematical modeling of rupture and relaxation characteristics of soybean under compressive loading0.493THE EFFECTS OF SPINDLE TYPES AND KNEADING SPEED ON THE YIELD OF SHEA BUTTER IN AN AUTOMATED KNEADING MACHINE0.490Impact of Specific Energy on the Drying of Cooked Rice and Instant Rice Quality0.486Near-Infrared Hyperspectral Imaging Sensing for Gluten Detection and Quantification.0.485Effect of Cold Air Plasma on Seed Germination and Plant Growth for Lettuce0.467Characterization of Electrospun Helm Nanofiber and Impact on the Shelf-Life of Raw Poultry Meat0.466Influence of Lactic Acid Bacteria on Sour Mash Bourbon Fermentations0.408Session Outlier Identification  Beyond merely assessing sessions for overall similarity, the similarity scores can also be used to identify outlier presentations through the Standardized Deviation metric. As an example (Table 5), in session 115, “Innovations in Crop Protection Product and Application Equipment Development,” one presentation focused on using microwave radiation to reduce germination of weed seeds while all others focused on sprayer technology developments. This large deviation in topic between this presentation and all others in the session ended up generating a Standardized Deviation score of -2.61, which was the most negative Standardize Deviation in a standard oral session. Table 5. The standard oral (non-lightning) session from AIM 2024 with the largest outlier presentation.Session: 115 Innovations in Crop Protection Product and Application Equipment DevelopmentSession Coherence0.610Session Std. Dev.0.068PresentationPresentation-Session SimilarityStandardized DeviationMicrowave Treatment Techniques for Managing Weedy Rice while Preserving Soil Ecosystem0.432-2.610Surface engineering of biobased microcarriers for enhancing agrochemical delivery and minimizing spray loss0.580-0.439Turn Performance Analysis for a Self Propelled Sprayer0.608-0.033Developing Next Generation Functional Anti-Drift Adjuvant for Sustainable Agriculture Sprays0.6130.035Performance of hollow-cone nozzles coupled with high-frequency PWM valves operated at high pressures0.6160.081Sensitivity Analysis of a Hydraulic Lift Arm Suspension to Increase Center Frame Performance and Boom Height Stability of a Self-Propelled Sprayer0.6330.330UPDATES AND CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF A HIGH READING RESOLUTION PATTERNATOR2.0 TABLE0.6380.404Determining Spray Volume Rates for Apple Trees Applied with Laser-guided Variable-Rate Sprayers0.6530.621Selection of least-drifting spray nozzles for ground-based pesticide applications to protect insect pollinators0.6570.679Utilization of High Resolution Patternator Data to Establish Methods and Analytics to Determine Nozzle Spray Angle0.6740.932  This session could have been an excellent placement for this presentation on microwave-based weed control as a counterpoint to traditional sprayer technologies. It could illustrate an alternative future direction in crop protection. However, it definitely covers a different topic, and the similarity scores identified it as such. A human organizer would need to carefully evaluate if this was the best place for this presentation or if perhaps there are other presentations focused on alternative approaches with which it could be grouped instead. Indeed, there were many other presentations at AIM 2024 which focused on uses of microwaves, energy-based weed control and soil preparation (Table 6). Similarity scores provide a quick method to identify similar presentations and alternative placements for outlier presentations like this.Table 6. Presentations with the highest similarity scores with “Microwave Treatment Techniques for Managing Weedy Rice while Preserving Soil Ecosystem”PresentationSimilarityDevelopment and Evaluation of Directed Energy Systems for Precision Weed Control0.750Exploring the potential of microwave heating for tempering rice during high temperature drying0.696Design and Evaluation of a Novel Band-Steam Applicator for Controlling Soilborne Pathogens and Weeds in Leafy Greens0.695Optimizing Radiofrequency Exposure Parameters for One-Pass Drying of High-Moisture Paddy Rice0.647Session-Session Similarity for Session Scheduling  The session-session similarity captures how similar one session is to another session. While this can be useful for identifying sessions between which organizers can swap presentations, the impetus for its development was the desire to ensure that highly related presentations are not scheduled at the same time. The nearly 100 oral sessions at any given AIM are organized into 6 time slots. Ideally, sessions should not be scheduled in the same time slot as another session on different aspects of the same topic. The two sessions with the highest Session-Session Similarity Score of 0.678 were “330 Monitoring Standards: Applications, Methods and Technologies-HYBRID” and “214 Advances in Agrohydrological Sustainability – Remote Sensing and Machine Learning Applications.” Both sessions discussed environmental monitoring techniques. The next most similar sessions to Session 214 (in ranks 2 to 5 in Table 7) focus on environmental or ecosystems modeling and assessment which are largely based on the monitoring techniques in Sessions 330 and 214. The Session-Session Similarity clearly identified these highly related sessions. On the other hand, the five least similar sessions are all based on processes for the conversion of biological materials. It is difficult to definitively state that bioprocessing is the least similar to environmental monitoring, but it is clear these bioprocessing sessions have much less in common with environmental monitoring than the top five sessions. This illustrates the ability of the Session-Session Similarity to assist in final scheduling of sessions to prevent overlapping highly related topics. Table 7. Other sessions most and least similar to session 214 Advances in Agrohydrological Sustainability – Remote Sensing and Machine Learning Applications based on Session-Session Similarity scores calculated from the cde-small-v2 embeddingsSession Similarity RankSessionSession-Session Similarity Score1330 Monitoring Standards: Applications, Methods and Technologies-HYBRID0.6782313 Next-Gen Agroecosystem Modeling: Integrating AI/ML and Process-Based Models0.6223240 Extreme Event Hydrologic and Water Quality Modeling0.6134314 Nutrient Transport and Cycling: Modeling0.6135238 Ecosystem Services – Assessment, Decision Support Tools, Funding, and Case Studies0.607………94304 Anaerobic Digestion for Clean Power and Co-Products Production0.39895204 Fast Pyrolysis and Catalytic Conversion of Biomass to Bio-oil and Sustainable Aviation Biofuels0.39896319 Conversion and Applications of Wood-Derived Materials for Circular Biosystems0.39897108 Value-Added Chemicals, Products and Materials Towards Circular Bioeconomy0.39898318 Food Process Engineering0.398EMBEDDING METHOD COMPARISONS  The embedding models varied significantly on required processing time (Table 8). The newer models that could handle longer inputs required considerably more compute power to create embeddings for all the presentations. At one extreme, the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 took just 19 s to completely process all the presentations on an Intel Core i7-11850H @ 2.5 GHz using only the CPU. At the other extreme, the nomic-embed-text-v1.5 model required 1325 s (22 minutes and 5 s) to complete the embeddings on the same computer. Table 8. Embedding Model ComparisonModelnomic-embed-text-v1.5cde-small-v1all-mpnet-base-v2all-MiniLM-L6-v2Model Size (Parameters)137 M281 M110 M23 MMTEB Leaderboard Average Clustering Score43.9348.3243.6941.94Max Input Token Length8192512384[a]256[a]Processing Time [b]1325 s923.8 s (total) [c]265.4s18.9sProcessing Time – Input = 256 tokens (time reduction with shorter inputs)829.2 s (37% reduction)679.4 s (total) [d] (26% reduction)154.6s(42% reduction)19.8s[a]The Hugging Face Model Card reports 512, but the internal tokenizer truncates input above this number of tokens.[b]Processing time on an Intel Core i7-11850H @ 2.50GHz CPU without using GPU resources[c]The cde-small-v1 model requires time for two steps: 923.8 s (total) = 723.1 s (doc embedding) + 200.7s (dataset embedding)[d]The cde-small-v1 model requires time for two steps: 679.4 s (total) =  567.0 s (doc embedding) + 112.4 s (dataset embedding) .  While the newer models were able to handle longer input strings, these models also incorporate other differences as indicated by the differences in MTEB scores. When all models used input text limited to 256 tokens, processing time did reduce on the three larger models by 26% to 42% but there was still a significant difference in processing time between models (Table 8). The nomic-embed-text-v1.5 model still required 829.2 s (13m 49.2s) compared to the less than 20 s of the all-MiniLM-v6 model. The length of the input text does impact processing time, but it is not the main driver of the differences in processing time.  While there are drastic differences in processing time, similarity scores from all models are highly correlated (Table 9). Based on the Pearson correlation between the similarities produced by each model, the least correlated models were the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 and the cde-small-v1 with a Pearson correlation of 0.79. These two models also happened to have the largest difference in clustering quality based on the MTEB. Table 9. The Pearson correlation between the similarity values of all presentations with all others calculated using different embedding models.nomic-embed-text-v1.5cde-small-v1all-mpnet-base-v2all-MiniLM-L6-v2nomic-embed-text-v1.51.000.850.870.83cde-small-v10.851.000.840.79all-mpnet-base-v20.870.841.000.88all-MiniLM-L6-v20.830.790.881.00  Truncating the inputs to only 256 tokens resulted in slight changes between correlations (Table 10). Correlations between different models (ranging from 0.79 to 0.89), are all much lower than the correlations between the same model working with the full or truncated inputs. (The correlations of a model with itself with full and truncated inputs are bolded in  Table 10). Since all-MiniLM-L6-v2 already truncated the inputs to 256 tokens, the truncation had no impact on its embeddings. This is represented by the perfect 1.00 correlation between the full and truncated results with this model. For the other models, truncation created only slight differences in similarity with correlations between 0.96 and 0.99 for these models with full and truncated inputs. Interestingly, the biggest impact of truncation was on cde-small-v1 (correlation of 0.96) rather than on nomic-embed-text-v1.5 (correlation of 0.98) which was the only model that could read the entirety of all abstracts. On the other hand, cde-small-v1 had the highest clustering benchmark scores, so it appears that it is just able to do more with the text that it is given. Finally, based on these results, it appears that all models were able to assess the topic of a presentation in the first 256 tokens. The differences between similarity estimates from models are more driven by model design and embedding efficiency than the capability to process more of the abstract. Table 10. Heat map and table of the Pearson correlation between model similarities as in Table 9, including both full length inputs and inputs truncated to 256 tokens. Correlations of a model with itself (using both full and truncated inputs) are bolded.nomic-embed-text-v1.5cde-small-v1all-mpnet-base-v2all-MiniLM-L6-v2fulltruncatedfulltruncatedfulltruncatedfulltruncatednomic-embed-text-v1.5full1.000.980.850.830.870.860.830.83truncated0.981.000.830.840.850.860.830.83cde-small-v1full0.850.831.000.960.840.830.790.79truncated0.830.840.961.000.820.830.790.79all-mpnet-base-v2full0.870.850.840.821.000.990.880.88truncated0.860.860.830.830.991.000.890.89all-MiniLM-L6-v2full0.830.830.790.790.880.891.001.00truncated0.830.830.790.790.880.891.001.00SESSION SIMILARITY RANKING BASED ON MODEL  When sessions are ranked by their session similarity calculated using different models, there are slight changes in the ordering based on model used (Table 11). The all-mpnet-base-v2 model ranks session 330 as the fifth most similar session whereas all other models ranked it as the most similar. Instead, all-mpnet-base-v2 considers session 242 the most similar, while the other models all considered it the third most similar model. For the least similar sessions, all models except cde-small-v1 identified session 228 as the session containing the least similar presentations. There are other slight shifts in the rankings between all models. However, the overall ordering is largely similar.Table 11. The sessions with the most similar and least similar presentations based on embeddings and similarities from different models.nomic-embed-text-v1.5cde-small-v1all-mpnet-base-v2all-MiniLM-L6-v2SessionSession SimilaritySessionSession SimilaritySessionSession SimilaritySessionSession Similarity3300.8613300.7332420.6733300.6042350.8382350.7242350.6712150.5762420.8152420.7132130.6342420.5402130.8111250.7092150.6243290.5363320.8031290.6943300.6212130.530……………………2060.6771220.5043260.3391090.2911180.6761180.5002060.3393180.2721220.6742280.5001220.3331220.2633180.6443340.4993180.3133340.2532280.6413180.4812280.2612280.221  As a final comment, the range of similarity scores created by models varied. For nomic-embed-text-v1.5, the session similarity scores ranged from 0.641 to 0.861, but for all-MiniLM-L6-v2, the range was from 0.221 to 0.604. While results are correlated and orders are similar, the embeddings and similarities from each model are unique to that model. Similarity scores can only be directly compared when they are produced by the same model.  DISCUSSION  All models appear capable of identifying similarities, but there is a large difference in processing time based on model. That said, the embedding process must only run once. Therefore, using a higher quality model even if it requires significantly more time to process would be justified. Once the embeddings and similarities are calculated, it is possible to test different session groupings quickly. Calculating session similarities is a quick process and does not require incurring the large processing costs related to embedding.   It also appears more important to consider model quality than maximum input token length. Restricting all models to just the first 256 tokens in the title and abstract only caused very slight differences in similarity scores. For this reason, the results displayed in this manuscript primarily focused on the cde-small-v1 model even though nomic-embed-text-v1.5 had the ability to consider the entirety of all titles and abstracts.   This project does not attempt to quantitively assess the clustering capability of these models. That is what large benchmark projects like MTEB are designed to do. Based on MTEB scores, the best model was cde-small-v1 and there is little value in replicating the already large body of work that goes into creating these benchmarks. Instead, this project focuses on the practical implications of using these models to identify similarities between presentations to improve session creation at ASABE AIM. As we have demonstrated, these systems can indeed quantify the similarity of presentations within sessions and identify outliers.  This system can be utilized in different ways. One simple approach is just to provide organizers with the ability to search for closely related presentations so that they can build better sessions. With over 1000 presentation submissions to AIM, no organizer can know the content of every presentation. Using similarity scores, an organizer can now quickly find the most related presentations to any given presentation. A tool has been created expressly for this purpose and the source code is posted at: https://github.com/joedvorak/Presentation-Similiarity-Exploration-App with a web app based on that code available at https://asabeaimsimilarity2024.streamlit.app/.   As organizers start building sessions, they can use session coherence to determine how on-topic their sessions are compared to other sessions. Sessions with high session coherence must include only highly related presentations for a high average similarity. In contrast, low session coherence scores can occur for two reasons. First, the session may include presentations on a wide variety of topics that are all only marginally related to each other. Another option is that one very unrelated outlier has been added to a session which is otherwise highly related, and this one unrelated outlier is bringing the average down.  Organizers can use the presentation session fit scores to identify outlier presentations for moving to different sessions as well as highly related presentations that may currently be in other sessions and that would be good candidates for adding to their session. At another level, community and technical program organizers can use session coherence scores to keep track of the overall session creation process and to identify sessions that need additional work. For AIM 2025, a Similarity Exploration web application was made available to organizer to perform the above assessments at https://asabeaimsimilarity2025.streamlit.app/ (Dvorak, 2025). During session organization, a weekly update was made to the application by the overall technical program chairs so that organizers could see the impact of changes made so far. Updating the app currently requires using a python embedding script, but this has been packaged into a library. It can also be run as a desktop application and files are available at https://github.com/joedvorak/Session-Creation-Package.  It is important to acknowledge that a session with low session coherence is not necessarily a “bad” session. Sessions can have a variety of purposes. For many, the purpose is a deep dive on a specific topic and the audience is practitioners in that field. In these cases, the session coherence should be high. In contrast an overview or introductory session designed for a broader audience would necessarily have lower session coherence scores. Finally, a session that is designed to highlight the top research and state of the art in a broad area would also be less cohesive. These other session types are incredibly valuable at conferences, so it is important that maximizing session coherence does not become the ultimate goal in organizing.  Session organization and conference planning still require human involvement. The goal is to create the best experience for human audiences. This process still requires human-in-the-loop as discussed by Luo et al. (2025). Scores and metrics can aid in that process, but it will be up to human organizers to determine the purpose of the session.  Extending this process further, similarity scores can be used with machine learning clustering to automatically create clusters of presentations to serve as the starting point for session organization. However, session organization is not a traditional clustering problem, and requires special clustering tuned to its specific uses in a given conference (Luo et al., 2025). Unlike clusters created from traditional clustering algorithms, sessions have size limits. Also, clustering generally attempts to maximize differences between clusters in addition to maximizing the similarity within the session (e.g. silhouette scores), but the general goal for most sessions will be to maximize similarity within the session without considering differences between sessions. Beyond the size constraints and goal differences, many common clustering approaches like k-means clustering are based on Euclidean distance instead of the cosine similarity that describes the relationship between the text embeddings.   Beyond automated session creation, AI also provides unique tools once the sessions have been created. A simple prompt can be used to provide an LLM with all the titles and abstracts for a session and ask it to create keywords and a list of potential session titles. This is a critical component of automatically clustered sessions as the clustering algorithms cannot specify the topics of the clusters that are created. It is also an excellent task for an LLM. While reading all the abstracts for one session is not as daunting as reading the abstracts for the entire conference, the LLM is able to do this quickly and immediately generate keyword and title suggestions. This enables human organizers to easily identify topics and organize the overall conference. Automated initial session creation and identification before handing the process off to human organizers is covered in Dvorak (in review).CONCLUSIONS  In this project, we illustrate the ability of text embedding models to determine the similarity between presentation topics. These individual similarity scores are then processed to create presentation and session metrics which will enable session organizers to more quickly identify issues in their session and presentations that should be considered for adding or removing from their session. The use of these similarity rankings is illustrated through comparisons of different oral sessions. Another tool to improve sessions is outlier identification and the application of this process is demonstrated through identification of outliers and the use of presentation similarity rankings locate new session homes for the outlier presentation. These scores can also be used to determine the most and least similar sessions to aid in ensuring similar sessions are not scheduled at the same time. The comparison of different models highlighted that all models performed similarly, with only slight differences between rankings. The ability of a model with a larger input context window to process more of the abstract was less of a differentiating factor than the clustering ability of the model as measured by standard benchmarks. As a result of these findings, it is suggested to focus on clustering quality rather than maximum input length. Finally, a web application has been developed based on this research to enable session organizers to quickly use these metrics for session organization for AIM 2025.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS   Thanks to Jessica Bell, ASABE staff, and Meetings Council for support in this effort and answering questions about the data.REFERENCESAchakulvisut, T., Acuna, D. E., Ruangrong, T., Kording, K. (2016). Science Concierge: A Fast Content-Based Recommendation System for Scientific Publications. PLoS ONE, 11(7), e0158423. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0158423Ahn, S. (2024). The transformative impact of large language models on medical writing and publishing: current applications, challenges and future directions. The Korean Journal of Physiology & Pharmacology, 28(5), 393. https://doi.org/10.4196/kjpp.2024.28.5.393Amazon Web Services. (2024, November). What is RAG? - Retrieval-Augmented Generation AI Explained - AWS. Retrieved November 8, 2024, from https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/retrieval-augmented-generation/Charlin, L., Zemel, R. (2013). The Toronto Paper Matching System: An automated paper-reviewer assignment system. In ICML 2013 Workshop on Peer Reviewing and Publishing Models. Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Retrieved from https://openreview.net/forum?id=caynafZAnBafxCohan, A., Feldman, S., Beltagy, I., Downey, D., Weld, D. (2020). SPECTER: Document-level Representation Learning using Citation-informed Transformers. Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2270–2282. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.207Devlin, J., Chang, M.-W., Lee, K., Toutanova, K. (2019). BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In J. Burstein, C. Doran, & T. Solorio (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) (pp. 4171–4186). Minneapolis, Minnesota: Association for Computational Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1423Dvorak, J. (2025, January 15). joedvorak/Presentation-Similarity-Processing. Jupyter Notebook. Retrieved from https://github.com/joedvorak/Presentation-Similarity-Processing (Original work published January 3, 2025)Dvorak, J. (2025, May 20). AIM 2025 Presentation Similarity · Streamlit. Retrieved July 30, 2025, from https://asabeaimsimilarity2025.streamlit.app/Dvorak, J. (in review). Optimizing ASABE AIM Session Creation with Text Clustering and LLMs. Journal of the ASABE.Eckhardt, R., Arablouei, R., McCosker, K., Bernhardt, H. (2024). Modeling Climate Change Impacts on Cattle Behavior Using Generative Artificial Intelligence: A Pathway to Adaptive Livestock Management. In 2024 Anaheim, California July 28-31, 2024. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202400377Enevoldsen, K., Chung, I., Kerboua, I., Kardos, M., Mathur, A., Stap, D., … Muennighoff, N. (2025, June 8). MMTEB: Massive Multilingual Text Embedding Benchmark. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.13595Google. (2024, November). What is Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)? Retrieved November 8, 2024, from https://cloud.google.com/use-cases/retrieval-augmented-generationHettich, S., Pazzani, M. J. (2006). Mining for proposal reviewers: lessons learned at the national science foundation. In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining (pp. 862–871). Philadelphia PA USA: ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/1150402.1150521Karimzadehgan, M., Zhai, C., Belford, G. (2008). Multi-aspect expertise matching for review assignment. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management (pp. 1113–1122). Napa Valley California USA: ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/1458082.1458230LangChain. (2024a, November). Chat models | ????? LangChain. Retrieved November 7, 2024, from https://python.langchain.com/docs/concepts/chat_models/LangChain. (2024b, November). Retrieval augmented generation (rag) | ????? LangChain. Retrieved November 8, 2024, from https://python.langchain.com/docs/concepts/rag/LangChain. (2024c, November). String-in, string-out llms | ????? LangChain. Retrieved November 7, 2024, from https://python.langchain.com/docs/concepts/text_llms/Lee, J., Chen, F., Dua, S., Cer, D., Shanbhogue, M., Naim, I., … Duerig, T. (2025, March 10). Gemini Embedding: Generalizable Embeddings from Gemini. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.07891Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., … Kiela, D. (2020). Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (Vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474). Vancouver, Canada: Curran Associates, Inc. Retrieved from https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/hash/6b493230205f780e1bc26945df7481e5-Abstract.htmlLi, B., Hou, Y. T. (2016). The new automated IEEE INFOCOM review assignment system. IEEE Network, 30(5), 18–24. https://doi.org/10.1109/MNET.2016.7579022Li, J., Lammers, K., Yin, X., Yin, X., He, L., Lu, R., Li, Z. (2024). Advancing Orchard Fruit Detection: An Innovative Agricultural Foundation Model Approach. In 2024 Anaheim, California July 28-31, 2024. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202401398Luo, Y., Li, Y., Ogunyemi, O., Koski, E., Himes, B. E. (2025). Leveraging large language models for academic conference organization. NPJ Digital Medicine, 8, 101. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-025-01492-7Mimno, D., McCallum, A. (2007). Expertise modeling for matching papers with reviewers. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining (pp. 500–509). San Jose California USA: ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/1281192.1281247Moore, K. G., Sadler, J. M. (2023). How will we teach programming in a ChatGPT world? In 2023 Omaha, Nebraska July 9-12, 2023. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202301472Morris, J. X., Rush, A. M. (2024, November 8). Contextual Document Embeddings. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.02525MTEB. (2025a, January 24). MTEB Leaderboard - a Hugging Face Space by mteb. Retrieved January 24, 2025, from https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboardMTEB. (2025b, July 29). MTEB Legacy Leaderboard - a Hugging Face Space by mteb. Retrieved July 29, 2025, from https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard_legacyMuennighoff, N., Tazi, N., Magne, L., Reimers, N. (2023, March 19). MTEB: Massive Text Embedding Benchmark. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2210.07316Muller, J. M., Petti, D. J., Li, C., Gorucu, S., Pilz, M., Weichelt, B. (2024). Investigating the Use of Large Language Models in Agricultural Injury Surveillance. In 2024 Anaheim, California July 28-31, 2024. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.202400572Nussbaum, Z., Morris, J. X., Duderstadt, B., Mulyar, A. (2024, February 2). Nomic Embed: Training a Reproducible Long Context Text Embedder. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.01613OpenAI. (2024a, March 13). New embedding models and API updates. Retrieved July 28, 2025, from https://openai.com/index/new-embedding-models-and-api-updates/OpenAI. (2024b, November). Text Generation - OpenAI Platform. Retrieved November 7, 2024, from https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generationOpenReview. (2024, January 10). How to Compute Affinity Scores. Retrieved July 28, 2025, from https://docs.openreview.net/how-to-guides/paper-matching-and-assignment/how-to-compute-affinity-scoresOpenReview. (2025b, July 25). openreview/openreview-expertise (Version 2.0.8). OpenReview. Retrieved from https://github.com/openreview/openreview-expertise (Original work published August 2, 2018)Price, S., Flach, P. A. (2017). Computational support for academic peer review: a perspective from artificial intelligence. Communications of the ACM, 60(3), 70–79. https://doi.org/10.1145/2979672Rajpurkar, P., Zhang, J., Lopyrev, K., Liang, P. (2016). SQuAD: 100,000+ Questions for Machine Comprehension of Text. In J. Su, K. Duh, & X. Carreras (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (pp. 2383–2392). Austin, Texas: Association for Computational Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D16-1264Reimers, N., Gurevych, I. (2019, August 27). Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks. arXiv. Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084SBERT.net. (2024, November). Pretrained Models — Sentence Transformers documentation. Retrieved November 8, 2024, from https://www.sbert.net/docs/sentence_transformer/pretrained_models.htmlSentence Transformers. (2024a, January 5). sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2 · Hugging Face. Retrieved November 11, 2024, from https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2Sentence Transformers. (2024b, January 5). sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2 · Hugging Face. Retrieved January 24, 2025, from https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2Shutske, J. M. (2023). Editorial: Harnessing the Power of Large Language Models in Agricultural Safety & Health. Journal of Agricultural Safety and Health, 29(4), 205–224. https://doi.org/10.13031/jash.15841Shutske, J. M., Issa, S. F., Johnson, T., Khorsandi, F., Pate, M. L., Gorucu, S., … Versweyveld, J. (2025). SAFER AG – Risk Assessment, Data, Design Standards, and Regulation: Needs and Recommendations. Journal of Agricultural Safety and Health, 31(1), 1–13. https://doi.org/10.13031/jash.15855Singh, A., D’Arcy, M., Cohan, A., Downey, D., Feldman, S. (2022). SciRepEval: A Multi-Format Benchmark for Scientific Document Representations (Version 4). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2211.13308Sprague, Z., Ye, X., Bostrom, K., Chaudhuri, S., Durrett, G. (2024, March 23). MuSR: Testing the Limits of Chain-of-thought with Multistep Soft Reasoning. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.16049Stephen, S., Ruffin, D., Palmer, X., Potter, L. (2024). Securing Agricultural Systems Against the Threat of Misinformation. Journal of the ASABE, 67(6), 1595–1605. https://doi.org/10.13031/ja.15979Templeton, A., Conerly, T., Marcus, J., Lindsey, J., Bricken, T., Chen, B., … Jones, A. (2024). Scaling Monosemanticity: extracting interpretable features from Claude 3 sonnet. Transformer Circuits Thread. Retrieved from https://transformer-circuits.pub/2024/scaling-monosemanticity/index.htmlThakur, N., Reimers, N., Rücklé, A., Srivastava, A., Gurevych, I. (2021, October 21). BEIR: A Heterogenous Benchmark for Zero-shot Evaluation of Information Retrieval Models. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.08663Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., … Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is All you Need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, & R. Garnett (Eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (Vol. 30, pp. 1–11). Long Beach, California, USA: Curran Associates, Inc. Retrieved from https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/file/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Paper.pdfWang, A., Pruksachatkun, Y., Nangia, N., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., … Bowman, S. R. (2020, February 13). SuperGLUE: A Stickier Benchmark for General-Purpose Language Understanding Systems. arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.00537Wang, F., Wan, X., Sun, R., Chen, J., Arık, S. Ö. (2024, October 9). Astute RAG: Overcoming Imperfect Retrieval Augmentation and Knowledge Conflicts for Large Language Models (Version 1). arXiv. Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07176		2		      ASABE Journal Template January 2023			1              		1      